Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, October 07, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 07: The Eviction Candidate. After Blackstone, the world’s largest corporate landlord and private real estate owner, made news for ramping up evictions and raising rents in 2023, Michigan Republican U.S. Senate candidate Mike Rogers invested as much as $250,000 in Blackstone’s private real estate trust — investments he still holds today.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 07: Midterm Madness: James Talarico’s $28,000 Oil Change. 🗳️ This is Midterm Madness , the only newsletter you need to stay up to date on election news. Key race updates, money trails, numbers that cut through the spin, and campaign moments that say more than official talking points ever will — from The Lever team to your inbox, every Wednesday. 👀 Watch: Sen. Susan Collins’ big “ Let them eat road salt ” moment.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 07: 74,250 Palestinians in Gaza killed since Oct. 7, 2023; U.S. trade deficit top $100 billion; Kenya confirms first Ebola case. Wednesday, October 7, 2026 – Palestine : Israel continues to kill Palestinians in Gaza three years into the genocide. Palestinian killed, dozens detained as Israeli forces and settlers attack across the occupied West Bank. More than 20,500 students killed in Gaza over three years of Israeli genocide. Palestinian female prisoner held in isolation for 46 days.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published October 07: The falsehoods billionaires are mailing to Ohio voters. V-PAC is a super PAC supporting Republican Vivek Ramaswamy’s campaign for governor in Ohio. Most of its $42 million war chest has come from a handful of billionaires, including Jeff Yass ($20 million), Ross Stevens ($6 million), Elon Musk ($5 million), Ratmir Timashev ($5 million), and Bill Ackman ($1 million).

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Judd Legum, titled 1. Contacted for comment by Popular Information, V-PAC, the billionaire-funded super PAC supporting Vivek Rama....

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 06: Why Bagram Air Base Remains a Target Five Years After U.S. Exited Afghanistan. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers. BAGRAM, Afghanistan— “They are back,” said Abdul Maroof, a 38-year-old resident of Kabul.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 06: Your Tap Water Could Have A 67 Percent Markup. Data from the 500 largest neighborhood water systems in the U.S. reveals that, in the last decade, the cost of household drinking water increased faster than inflation, grocery prices, and median income — thanks, in part, to for-profit water systems.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 06: The GOP Has A Texas Problem. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 New in The Lever : A new wave of lawmakers is calling out the Congressional Black Caucus. 👀 Watch: Even Obama Democrats are admitting that the party is a "failed enterprise." 👇 Further down in this newsletter: A comeback in deep-red America. The water profiteers. Millionaires’ tax flight myth.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Ken Klippenstein shared: Ohio man jailed for texting Shrek’s penis to a state senator. Your questions about Shrexting, answered.. An Ohio blogger spent 23 hours in jail after texting a senator a crude Shrek meme. Can political mockery be prosecuted? The First Amendment weighs in.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: You don’t have to hand it to Richard Hanania. The so-called "former" white supremacist's work doesn't show accountability—or that he's actually moved on from his earlier views, Christopher Mathias writes.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: US DAFs Donate Millions to Groups Linked to India’s Far-Right. Donor-advised funds allow individuals and foundations to give money to charities while remaining anonymous.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: DOOCY: Is the plague in Russia a bioweapon? TRUMP: We don't think so. If you listen to them, it's under control DOOCY: We've heard this before during your first term. Are you getting the same vibe? TRUMP: They do say they have it very much under control

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: How do you monitor conflicts when data isn’t regularly collected? Explore techniques for conflict analysis, with case studies and methods focused on the Sahel and Sudan. Join us on the 27th of October 2026. ...

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: convicted felon Peter Navarro, who now works in the White House again after serving a four-month sentence, goes on TV with the White House behind him to promote a new product that he'll personally profit from -- a book called "Why Fauci Must Rot in Prison"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.