Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Tuesday, August 25, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Bellingcat, Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 25: Anti-billionaire tax ad falsely claims every Californian will have to “report all their assets”. In November, California voters will consider a one-time 5% tax on the assets of a few hundred of the state’s billionaires. The initiative, should it pass, is expected to generate tens of billions of dollars for health care and education programs. Opponents of the measure have a big problem: taxing billionaires is quite popular.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Bellingcat team at Bellingcat, published August 25: Tracking a Sanctioned Russian Vessel’s West African Odyssey. Sign up here to receive Bellingcat’s biggest investigations by email as soon as they are published. A sanctioned vessel that was previously reported to have transported weapons destined for Russian mercenaries has been traversing ports on the west coast of Africa since March, exhibiting what experts told Bellingcat was an unusual set of movements and behaviours.

Alex: Bellingcat pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled Tracking a Sanctioned Russian Vessel’s West African Odyssey - bellingcat.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 24: Documents Reveal Trail of Unreported Millions From Israeli Military to U.S. Universities. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Gary, Indiana still without power; U.S. to unveil “economic D-day” sanctions against Iran; Israel bombs mosque, desalination plant in Gaza.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published August 24: The Most Dangerous Feds You’ve Never Heard Of. HSI agents Nested within ICE is an American Stasi with the power to target U.S. citizens. Called Homeland Security Investigations, or HSI, it is the country’s second-largest criminal investigative agency behind only the FBI — though with broader authorities. But the most dangerous feds in America may also be the most incompetent.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 24: Hollywood’s Hangover. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 New by David Sirota: Is Bernie Sanders the new Barry Goldwater ? 👇 Further down in this newsletter: The devastating downstream effects of Hollywood’s mega-merger. Even Republicans are distancing themselves from AIPAC. Big Tech is eyeing a new state to fill with data centers. STORIES TO GO In a hurry?

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 24: GOP Senate candidate, campaigning as truck-driving everyman, travels by private jet. After securing the Republican nomination for the U.S. Senate in North Carolina, Michael Whatley launched his general election campaign with an ad that emphasized he was traveling the state in a GMC truck.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Judd Legum, titled 1. Michael Whatley, the GOP nominee for U.S. Senate in North Carolina, launched his general election campaign ....

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Abdul El-Sayed slugs it out with Jesse Watters. "We have one goal right now, to win Michigan, and given the fact my opponent is Mike Rogers, who you agree is a beta, it probably shouldn't be very hard" -- Abdul El-Sayed more than held his own against Jesse Watters, who tried to trip him up on loaded culture war questions.

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: My miscarriage. I attempted to put words to what's been going on in my life:

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: New dates have been added to our webinar programme for the final months of 2026. Taught by our researchers, there are sessions for all levels, from beginner to advanced. Find the latest dates here: /

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.