Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Thursday, September 17, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 17: UN experts cite possible U.S. war crimes in Iran strikes; Fed hikes interest rates for first time in 3 years; OpenAI flags “concerning” AI behavior. Thursday, September 17, 2026 – Saudi-led coalition strikes Yemen as fighting intensifies near Bab al-Mandab. AP: Saudi Arabia running low on missile interceptors, seeks foreign air-defense support. Bloomberg: Saudi Arabia seeks to restore half of East-West oil pipeline capacity “within days.” Trump claims U.S.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 17: Making pensions corrupt again. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) made a quiet announcement : the commission, which oversees Wall Street, is proposing to rescind a 16-year-old rule enacted to prevent “pay-to-play” schemes involving investment advisers and pension funds for public employees.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 16: The Ulm 5 Trial Dramatizes Germany’s Complicity with Israel’s Genocide in Gaza. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 16: Big AI’s Favorite Democrats Are Writing The Party’s AI Plan. Democratic House Minority Leader Hakeem Jeffries (D-N.Y.) took to ABC’s Sunday morning show to assure the public that the Democratic Party is taking strong measures to combat the AI Doomsday threat roiling the country. His prime example: a Democratic House commission on artificial intelligence stacked with lawmakers who’ve received a bonanza in campaign funding from Big Tech.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 16: Midterm Madness: Money Talks. Macklemore Doesn’t. 🗳️ This is Midterm Madness , the only newsletter you need to stay up to date on election news. Key race updates, money trails, numbers that cut through the spin, and campaign moments that say more than official talking points ever will — from The Lever team to your inbox, every Wednesday. 👇 Further down in this newsletter: Was AIPAC involved in the cancellation of a rapper?

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 16: AI’s Dela-Win. As public fears mount over an AI doomsday , AI firms just scored a big election win in a very small state. In Delaware last night, Attorney General Kathy Jennings won her Democratic primary, easily trouncing two challengers.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 16: “Get Lit” Livestream Recording: "As I Lay Dying". Today on Get Lit we are finishing William Faulkner’s As I Lay Dying . In the second half of the novel we finally get to hear from Addie, and learn that she was a deeply neurotic and disturbed woman who deserved the terrible family she had and sent them on this quest out of pure malice.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Retire in peace. McConnell is the latest example of an incapacitated politician refusing to let go.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Republicans don’t have a Nazi problem—they are the Nazi problem. A spate of recent revelations have shown the ideologies and their adherents are one and the same.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: “A Recurring Pattern”: Civilians Paying the Price in Mali’s Drone Campaign - bellingcat. Evidence collected by Bellingcat and Jeune Afrique contradicts Mali's claim that drone strikes are precise and only target terrorists.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Enten: "Trump is breaking records. Yesterday the Marquette Law School poll came out -- Trump's worst net approval rating on inflation. Minus 61! That's the worst Trump has ever polled on inflation, & not only that, it's the worst any president EVER has polled on inflation. Worse than Jimmy Carter!"

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Klobuchar: "People didn't want to go to a war in Iran, & now they're finding out it costs $40b, & he's still asking for $70b more. This election is going to be about values & priorities. Do they want to spend $70b more on this war on Iran, or do they want to get 2 years of ACA tax credits?"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Rep. Ansari: "Imagine if drug companies just put out a drug onto the market without the FDA looking at those drugs, testing those drugs, and ensuring that they were safe to consume for the American public, it is exactly the same with AI."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.