Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, August 07, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 07: PopInfo Weekly: Fakes, falsehoods, and favors. Last week, Popular Information reported that a New York Post headline falsely claimed that “Thousands of 9/11 families demand Mamdani be banned from 25th-Anniversary.” But a Popular Information interview with the organizer of the petition revealed that this was false, and that there was not an actual list of family members who signed the petition.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 06: Big Money Lost To Abdul El-Sayed. Where Will It Go Next?. LISTEN NOW: Michigan just proved that money has its limits in elections. Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed beat out establishment sweetheart Rep. Haley Stevens (D-Mich.) in what was likely the most expensive Democratic primary in U.S. history.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 06: Here Comes Hurricane Trump. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 ICYMI in The Lever : Trump is giving Big Oil the chance to cash in on public oil reserves. 👀 Watch: The master planners couldn’t have predicted this . 👇 Further down in this newsletter: Chaos at FEMA ahead of peak hurricane season. What Iran war spending could pay for instead. Green investments stay greenlit.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 06: Trump denies munitions shortages, vows to jail leakers; Israeli settler charged with killing Palestinian; Senate holds Fauci in contempt. Dr. Thursday, August 6, 2026 – Iran-Oman deal on Hormuz “on verge of being finalized,” deputy foreign minister says. U.S. President Donald Trump, Vice President JD Vance talk Iran negotiations. U.S. redirects 48 vessels as part of Iran blockade. Pakistan Prime Minister Shahbaz Sharif headed to Saudi Arabia. Iran arrests 21 for allegedly spying on its military. U.S.

Alex: Matt Taibbi at Racket News is on the same story, with a piece titled Senate Votes to Hold Dr. Anthony Fauci in Contempt; Obtains His Phone.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 06: “Get Lit" August 6, 2026: The Finale of Dostoevsky's “Demons” (Part 2). Illustrated by Daniel Medina L ink Here: How to Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Automated transcripts can be found on the web browser or app version below the byline. Share the Free Episodes of Get Lit: Watch Get Lit on YouTube below: Read more

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 06: As the Board of Peace Cosplays Diplomacy, Israel Once Again Ramps Up Killing in Gaza. Story by Abdel Qader Sabbah, Mohamed Ahmed, Sharif Abdel Kouddous, and Jawa Ahmad GAZA CITY—Ahmed Abu Al-Kas was sifting through the debris of an apartment in the Al-Sousi Tower in western Gaza City in the aftermath of a pre-dawn Israeli airstrike on Sunday that killed a pregnant woman, her husband, and their five-year-old son.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 06: Senate Republicans launch network of fake news sites. The Alaska Navigator bills itself as “independent news covering the Last Frontier.” On June 10, the outlet published an article headlined, “ As Fentanyl Deaths Rise in Alaska, Sullivan Pushes Tougher Penalties and Enforcement .” The piece, which has no byline, reports that Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) — who is locked in a competitive campaign against Democrat Mary Peltola — “is leading efforts to combat fentanyl trafficking and support law enforcement agencies confronting the epidemic.” Curiously, although Sullivan has been in the Senate for more than a decade, the piece cites only one piece of evidence: Sullivan’s vote for the HALT Fentanyl Act in March 2025.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Home | Bellingcat Investigations. Receive our most prominent investigations by email as soon as they are published.

Sam: Ken Klippenstein shared: David Crowley calls 'establishment' label in governor's race a 'slur'. Democratic governor candidate David Crowley pushed back on characterizations from some Democrats as being the party "establishment" candidate.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Q: You posted overnight that the US has a massive amount of munitions and you denied any shortages. There's a supplemental request for $21b to restock, so why is that necessary? TRUMP: Because we need more all the time. We gave a tremendous amount of Ukraine. The Biden people.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Stephen Miller: "The president is using his authority as commander as chief to sign an executive order using the new ruling the Supreme Court issued to expand the definition of people who are ineligible for birthright citizenship. That includes, for example, alien enemies ... "

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.