Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Tuesday, September 08, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 2 stories from outlets like Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 08: The hidden dangers of Musk’s votesafe.org. With the midterm elections approaching, it’s a good idea to make sure you are registered. Each state has a tool to do so, and the federal government has set up a page that directs you to the right place, vote.gov . Vote.gov, which is run by the Election Assistance Commission (EAC), does not ask for your personal information or track your activities.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 07: Announcement: No “Get Lit” Live Show Today. Read the announcement from Get Lit’s Brad Pearce below: In the meantime, catch up on the “Get Lit” Book List: See you next week!

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Welcome! You are invited to join a webinar: Reuters + SnapStream: Rapid Response for Political News in 2026. After registering, you will receive a confirmation email about joining the webinar.. Political press conferences generate dozens of newsworthy moments, but finding licensed live footage, clipping, and distributing quickly remains a challenge. Does this sound familiar? Join Reuters a...

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Pete Hegseth will be the next to fall. Trump will only tolerate being embarrassed for so long — especially when he can scapegoat him for Iran.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Chasing Side Deals, Flexing Influence: Lewandowski’s Power Moves at DHS. Kristi Noem’s close adviser effectively controlled billions in spending at Homeland Security; Lewandowski denies seeking business or playing any role in agency’s contracts.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Roger Marshall Sued 700 Patients for Debts; 81 Were Arrested. Now He’s a Senator. (Gift Article). Patients sued by Senator Roger Marshall of Kansas were routinely charged 18 percent interest, The Times found. Some had bank accounts garnished.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: "Mapping Hate Networks Across Borders" with Bellingcat | Podcast Episode on. This week Bellingcat's Michael Colborne and Pooja Chaudhuri joined us to share their experience of using network analysis techniques to study transnational hate groups. We spent the hour discussing us...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: September has begun, which means a new batch of Bellingcat challenges is ready for you to try. This month, we’re taking a new angle, with our researcher testing your ability to interpret imagery captured from orbit. Take on the challenges here:

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: Have you read how Bellingcat's used public records to uncover clues in a cold case murder? It is a tale of gang violence, immigration and hidden identities. Read the investigation below ...

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.