Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Tuesday, July 28, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 28: The truth about the viral 9/11 petition targeting Mamdani. On Sunday, the New York Post, the Rupert Murdoch-owned tabloid, ran a story on its cover under this blaring headline: “STAY AWAY: Thousands of 9/11 families demand Mamdani be banned from 25th-Anniversary.” The New York Post story is about a petition on Change.org started by Giovanni Galante, whose wife Grace Catherine Galante was among the nearly 3,000 victims of the 9/11 attacks.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 27: Israeli Settlers Set Up At Least Six New Colonial Outposts After Friday Killings in the Occupied West Bank. RAMALLAH, occupied West Bank—In the aftermath of Friday’s killings in the village of Tal, hundreds of armed Israeli settlers and soldiers launched a campaign of terror targeting Palestinian towns and villages across the occupied West Bank, with reports of home raids, shootings, assaults, mass detentions, and demolitions of property—including residential buildings, mosques, cars, agricultural equipment, and farmland.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 27: Drone Strikes Are Destroying the Infrastructure of Survival in the Heart of Sudan. Story by Mohamed Wad Al-Sak Ahmed Mahmoud’s sister, Nafisah, died last month in the city of El-Obeid, another victim of a more than three-year long war raging across Sudan already considered one of the deadliest conflicts for civilians this century.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 27: “Get Lit” Livestream, 4:30 pm ET: The Comic Climax of Dostoyevsky's "Demons". “And I proclaim,” Stepan Trofimovich shrieked, in the last extremity of passion, “and I proclaim that Shakespeare and Raphael are higher than the emancipation of the serfs, higher than nationality, higher than socialism, higher than the younger generation… ” With this outburst at a provincial fête, Stepan Verkhovensky — one of the main characters of Fyodor Dostoyevsky’s Demons — seals his fate as the enemy of political progress, in the eyes of a movement he’s loved all his life.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 27: These Democrats Voted Against The Iran War — Then Agreed To Fund It. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 ICYMI in The Lever : The health insurance industry’s favorite governor just waged war on Medicare for All. 👇 Further down in this newsletter: The lawmakers playing both sides of the Iran war debate. ICE's concerning purchase of mercenary software.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 27: History's Most Preventable Terror Attack?. On Saturday evening, a German-born man attacked a Pride Parade, first chasing people with a machete, then driving a van into a crowd, and finally running “toward officers with a sharp instrument” before being shot dead in the town of Spandau.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 27: Iran war pauses; Yemen and Saudi go “siege for a siege”; Dr. Fauci’s diary. Monday, July 27, 2026 – U.S., Iran pause strikes. New York Times: President Donald Trump to avoid major escalation in Iran, for now. Iran, Ukraine accuse each other of involvement in each other's wars. Ship explodes in the Strait. Iran claims full control over Hormuz. Pentagon removes four U.S. troop deaths from official Iran war casualty tally.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Why Trump deserves all the blame for high gas prices. Normally blaming the president is unfair. But not this time.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Exclusive: Political operative behind Graham Platner's rise accused of sexual assault. A spokesperson for Daniel Moraff said: “Any suggestion that he committed a criminal offence is false and without foundation."

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "Only ships that we want to get through get through. Iran doesn't control the strait. We control the strait. Now, they can drop a couple of mines in there and screw things up. But we control the strait."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Ron Johnson on Fox & Friends remembered to offer brief thoughts and prayers to his constituents who were devastated by a tornado yesterday before pivoting to his stale attacks on Dr Fauci for his diary

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Mark Kelly: "He's stuck. He doesn't know what to do. This is a guy who in his last term said he knows more than the admirals and generals. His high school military education certainly did not prepare him to be the commander in chief."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.