Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, October 02, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 02: Germany Offered to Fund Their Education. It Won’t Help Them Leave Gaza.. Photo: Ranin Al-Madhoun. This month, the winter semester begins at universities across Germany, and students will fill lecture halls as they begin their studies. Twenty-three-year-old Ranin Al-Madhoun will not be among them. She studied German intensively and won a competitive scholarship from the German Konrad Adenauer Foundation.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 02: U.S. deploys another carrier to the Middle East; Putin escalates Kaliningrad threats; Mass funeral in Gaza. Friday, October 2, 2026 – Iran : U.S. sending third carrier, up to 10,000 more troops to Middle East. U.S. deploys Patriot batteries to Saudi Arabia, Qatar. Treasury issues new round of sanctions on Iran’s auto and rail sectors. Iran strikes fifth tanker in Hormuz within three days. Gulf oil exports double since early August.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 02: Michigan Republican Tom Barrett Is Now Sour On Trump’s War in Iran—But Still Took Plenty of Defense Cash. Rep. While Republican Rep. Tom Barrett has been actively working to distance himself from President Donald Trump and the administration’s unpopular war in Iran, defense industry PACs and executives have poured more than $58,000 into Republican Rep. Tom Barrett’s bid for reelection in Michigan’s 7th district.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 02: Video: The Morning the U.S. Bombed a School in Iran. A view from inside the destroyed Shajareh Tayyebeh primary school, which was struck by U.S. In the opening hours of the war against Iran, on February 28, 2026, the U.S. military fired Tomahawk cruise missiles directly at a school in the southern city of Minab.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published October 02: PopInfo Weekly: Hawks, Hawkeyes, and Hegseth. Jay Feely, a former NFL kicker and CBS Sports analyst who is running for Congress in Arizona, has made “protecting women’s sports” a central theme of his campaign. Yet Feely has expressed retrograde views about female athletes. He described girls who compete in sports as “emotional” and more interested in getting along with their teammates than winning.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 02: How AI Could Wipe Out Our Brains Before Our Existence. LISTEN NOW: Anthropic’s leaked IPO documents show the company had a net loss of $42 billion in 2025 and still insists that its technology could pose a “catastrophic or existential risk to humanity.” It’s either the most honest risk disclosure or the most effective marketing scheme in corporate history. So which is it?

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 01: It’s Not A Bulwark. It’s A Plot.. In the last week, there has been a healthy — and long-overdue — debate over former Republicans suddenly monetizing themselves as leaders of the anti-Trump popular front.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: The mendaciousness of the latest DOJ attack on judges. Blanche created a new rule out of thin air and is mad it’s not being followed.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: Congratulations to the Winners of the 2026 Online Journalism Awards! - Online Journalism Awards. As the in-person celebration of the 2026 Online Journalism Awards (#OJA26) comes to a close, we congratulate the winners in the remaining 12 of 28 categories.

Alex: Ken Klippenstein shared: Trump’s Finger Gets Closer to Nuclear Button. The Pentagon is “increasing [nuclear] options available to the President,” says undersecretary of war: ...

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: incredible spin from Hassett on mortgage rates being well above 7%: "When the economy is growing really high, then longer-term interest rates can sometimes go up not because of inflation, but because like all these businesses have a high demand for capital because they're building factories."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Newsmax to Texas House Republican: "Do we need to change messaging in order to convince voters it's better than they think, and remind them how bad it was under Democrats and Joe Biden?"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: "Voters have a regret or two, and we've seen this in poll after poll. The regret has grown since the beginning of Trump's presidency" -- Enten unpacks polling showing that Kamala Harris would easily beat Donald Trump if they were both on the ballot again next month

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.