Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, October 10, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 10: You Love To See It: Breaking Bad Money. Good things are happening! Dark money gets a preelection sunburn, a domestic-abuse lifeline lives on, an unlikely state signs a prescription for corporate greed, and The Lever interviews a new insurgent in the rebellion against Citizens United . You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 09: Susan Collins’ Hard-Luck Story Has An Assault-Rifle Twist. Behind in the polls and with control of Congress possibly hinging on her reelection, incumbent Republican Sen. Susan Collins claimed in Tuesday’s closely watched Maine Senate debate that she’s experienced hard times.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 09: Drones and Death: Families Reel from the UAE’s “Catastrophic” Strikes in War on ISIS. Puntland security forces patrol after capturing ISIS bases in Cal Miskaad mountain range in Bari, east of the Gulf of Aden in the city of Bosasso, Puntland region, Somalia on January 25, 2025. REUTERS/Feisal Omar. MOGADISHU, Somalia—Drones had been hovering over Togga-Xarago—a mountainous settlement in northeastern Somalia all day.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published October 09: Beware the Modern Wimp-Man. Prince Harry: “I hated myself” Actor John Leguizamo, breaking down while receiving the Career Achievement Award from the Critics Choice Association: Leguizamo has been in a hundred movies and is fresh off a gift gig in the representation Olympics that was The Odyssey. He once boasted that voicing a dipshit sloth in the Ice Age series “got me a brownstone.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 09: LeverMind Quiz: Why Is Walmart Watching Your Car?. Who’s making housing unaffordable? Who botched the Epstein files? And why is Walmart watching your car? The answers to these questions and many more can be found in LeverMind , our weekly news quiz testing your knowledge of the developments that really matter — and who needs to be held accountable.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from The Lever team, titled Walmart Says It Prices Products, Not People. Its Patents Suggest Otherwise..

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 09: Child killed in Gaza every 71 min for 3 years; Pentagon to livestream firing squad; Human rights jurist Navi Pillay wins Nobel Peace Prize. Friday, October 9, 2026 – Palestine : Israeli attacks kill nine Palestinians in Gaza on Thursday and Friday. Israeli settlers carry out at least 19 attacks across the occupied West Bank, targeting olive harvesters and property. Palestinian Authority plans to postpone November elections until September 2027.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published October 09: PopInfo Weekly: Mailers, measles, and manta ray. This week, Popular Information released PaidForBy.info , a web app that gives unprecedented insight into who is really sending you political mailers — and who is paying for it. Anyone can use it for free. All you have to do is take a photo of the front and the back of the mailer and upload it. It also works on YouTube and TV ads.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: What it's like to witness a botched execution. Q+A with Steven Hale of The Nashville Banner, who watched as Christa Pike survived two lethal injections.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Trump’s collapse with indy voters, explained by Greg Sargent. “This is the center of the electorate completely turning on Trump.”

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: White House Press Secretary Katie Zacharia on Fox & Friends: "People need to start giving him credit for his multifaceted approach and how he's trying to bring down prices almost unilaterally all by himself"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: White House Press Secretary Katie Zacharia nods along on Fox & Friends as Rachel Campos-Duffy blasts that "ingrate Zelenskyy who keeps blowing up refineries and making things more complicated for the president ahead of the midterms"

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: A grandmotherly protester gets kicked out while flipping the double bird, and other notable moments from the Trump rally in New York -- including Trump making genocidal threats against Iran and then in the very next breath whining about not winning the Nobel Stick around for Mike Tyson at the end

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.