Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, September 04, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 9 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 04: PopInfo Weekly: Green cards, gutter balls, and grief. On Monday, Popular Information revealed that Acting Labor Secretary Keith Sonderling, who President Trump nominated to permanently head the department, took multiple trips to China in 2015 as an attorney where he pitched Chinese nationals on investment projects in Florida.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 04: Trump’s About To Let Wall Street “Pay To Play” With Your Pension. The Trump administration just announced it intends to let Wall Street investment advisers pour campaign cash into the coffers of politicians who control access to trillions of dollars in workers’ retirement savings.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 03: Secretive U.S. Base in Somalia Signals New Phase of War. No paywalls. No advertisers. No billionaire owners. Just journalism that answers only to you. Support Drop Site today Aparade of newly trained Puntland Security Forces soldiers, trained to combat ISIS, in the Bari region of Puntland, January 30, 2025. Photo: REUTERS/Feisal Omar MOGADISHU, Somalia — On September 3, shortly after sunset, U.S.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 03: The Thousand Martyrs Cup: Football Returns to Palestine After Three Years of Genocide. An Ittihad Deir al-Balah football player jumps over an agility ladder in a training session ahead of the Thousand Martyrs Cup. August 2026. Courtesy of Ittihad Deir al-Balah.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 03: Nonbinary Gender Extremism?. Sebastian Gorka Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive. It isn’t for lack of material, which is a rare blend of both cry-laugh funny and substantively alarming.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 03: Rogue Dems Join GOP To Condemn Socialism. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 New on Lever Time : Susan Collins isn’t out of the woods yet . 👀 Watch: AOC tells The Lever about her 2028 calculus . 👇 Further down in this newsletter: Which Democrats went rogue to condemn socialism? Why do young men feel like failures? An AI architect’s terrifying confession. STORIES TO GO In a hurry?

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 03: Trump’s Former AI Architect Just Confessed Something Terrifying. The architect of President Donald Trump’s artificial intelligence plan to bulldoze environmental safeguards and restrict states from regulating the nascent technology just admitted he downplayed the tech’s existential risks.

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 03: ICE plans national voter database; NYC schools ban AI through 8th grade; Katz: Ethnic cleansing of Gaza the “only solution”. Thursday, September 3, 2026 – Iran launches attacks on U.S. bases in Kuwait and UAE. Latest wave of U.S. strikes on Iran kill 18, injure 142. Iran seizes ship in the Gulf, arrests crew members. U.S. President Donald Trump says Iran bombing won’t last “too long,” suggests naming Strait of Hormuz after himself.

Alex: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 03: “Get Lit” September 3, 2026: William Faulkner’s “As I Lay Dying.” Part II of a Discussion.. Illustrated by Daniel Medina L ink Here: How to Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Automated transcripts can be found on the web browser or app version below the byline. Share the Free Episodes of Get Lit: Watch Get Lit on YouTube below: Read more

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: "Trumpapalooza". We discuss the convention that nobody but Trump is asking for.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Newsom: "Do you know how much his supporters lost on that memecoin? It's down 98%. They lost $3.8 billion. His supporters. And he took home over $600 million. That says everything you need to know about the president of the United States, Donald Trump, about who this man is."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Newsom in South Carolina: "You have a governor who refuses to pull a pen out of his pocket to provide healthcare for tens of thousands of people that are desperate for it by simple expanding Medicaid which he could do tomorrow"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Newsom: "Look what happened in Vietnam. They got slapped with a 46% tariff. Until they didn't. Because Eric Trump visited Vietnam in the middle of negotiations. Met with the prime minister, who had a press conference with Eric Trump announcing they had just approved a new golf course in record time"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.