Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Sunday, July 26, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 4 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Racket News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 25: Listen to This Article: Don't Let Activists or Robots Choose Your Words. From AI chats to the new AP stylebook to a long list of political crazes, online America is constantly looking for ways to put words in your mouth Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 06/22/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts Read more

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 25: Whitmer’s War Against Medicare For All. Michigan Democratic Gov. Gretchen Whitmer has announced a last-minute endorsement of U.S. Rep. Haley Stevens in her Democratic Senate primary battle against former Wayne County public health official Abdul El-Sayed .

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 25: India’s Cockroach Protests End as Modi Government Bows to Demands. Your support is what keeps this journalism independent and free. DELHI—Protesters occupying the central parts of Delhi, India were triumphant on Saturday evening after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government accepted all demands raised by the movement’s leaders, including the resignation of the country’s education minister Dharmendra Pradhan.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 25: You Love To See It: My Kingdom For A Sweatshirt. Good things are happening! Abortion education prevails as high fashion, the country gets its first statewide data center moratorium, an economic justice champion scores a new gig, and a pension penny-pincher reaps what it sows. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Trump bombs at White House Correspondents' Dinner. Here's a long cut of Trump's widely panned, low energy WHCD speech, starting w/ his vile joke about Collins - “I thought Kaitlan really made it big w/ a big new sponsorship.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.