Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, August 19, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 4 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 18: Gaza Talks, Florida Primaries, and ICE Detention. President Trump’s son-in-law Jared Kushner traveled to the region for high level meetings with Hamas leader Khalil al-Hayya in Cairo on Sunday followed by Israeli prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday to discuss the next stages of the so-called ceasefire plan that was announced by President Donald Trump last month.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Primaries in Florida, Alaska, California; Israel strikes Syrian air base; Congo’s Ebola outbreak.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 18: Gaza's Teachers Struggle to Fill the Void of a School System Decimated by Israel. GAZA CITY—Thirteen-year-old Saida Abdullah stood in front of several dozen of her classmates gathered under sheets of tarp strung up among olive trees on a plot of farmland in the Sheikh Radwan neighborhood of northern Gaza City on Saturday. “Long live a free and Arab Palestine,” she cried out.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 18: All The President’s Millionaires. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 ICYMI in The Lever : This Senate candidate has a data center problem . 👇 Further down in this newsletter: The plutocracy running the White House. Who’s purchasing Spirit Airlines’ data? Big relief at Big Bend. STORIES TO GO In a hurry? These are the top stories in the country today.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 18: The Senate Candidate Who Could Get Rich Off Data Centers. Michigan Republican Senate candidate former Rep. Mike Rogers holds millions in tech investments that could benefit from the data center boom, giving him a personal financial stake as he backs President Donald Trump’s push to fast-track artificial intelligence infrastructure.

Alex: Drop Site team at Drop Site News is on the same story, with a piece titled Judge Throws Out “Political Prosecution” of Pro-Palestinian University of Michigan Student.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: Home | Bellingcat Investigations. Receive our most prominent investigations by email as soon as they are published.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: DHS's abuse of power in Minnesota was even worse than we knew. "Federal thugs murdering two & shooting a third in under 3 weeks caused a reckoning within the regime, but it was precisely the opposite of what it should've been.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Michele Tafoya on Fox Business refers to Minnesota, the state where she is a Republican US Senate candidate, as a “provincial state” where people are more concerned about fraud than the economy

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Ossoff: "Brian Kemp was right about Mike Collins. Remember how hard the gov worked to prevent this guy from getting the Republican nomination? Coach Dooley would've been an honorable opponent, not a sitting congressman who is surrounded at work and at home by neo-Nazi ideology and white nationalism"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Ossoff: "Mike Collins needs to release every communication -- email, text message, phone record, encrypted chat -- between his office, his chief of staff, and those white supremacists, and he needs to release those communications today ... there is no place for white nationalism in the Senate"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.