Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Tuesday, August 04, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Popular Information, Racket News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 04: Is this the most dishonest ad of 2026?. An opaque nonprofit affiliated with Senate Republicans, One Nation, has blanketed Georgia over the last five days with a new ad attacking Senator Jon Ossoff (D). The group has spent $1.7 million in less than a week, delivering 78 million impressions of the ad across the state, according to data from AdImpact. Almost nothing in the ad is true.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 04: THE KINGMAKERS, Ep. 6: Obama's Kill List. Sign up for a paid subscription to The Lever now to gain access to this story and more. Select Your Paid Subscription Already have an account? Sign in

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 04: THE KINGMAKERS, Ep. 5: State Of Emergency. Sign up for a paid subscription to The Lever now to gain access to this story and more. Select Your Paid Subscription Already have an account? Sign in

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 03: What You Need To Know About The Democratic Reckoning In Michigan. Tomorrow, the Democratic Party’s future may be decided in Michigan. Progressive insurgent Abdul El-Sayed is taking on establishment favorite Rep. Haley Stevens in a high-stakes primary to replace retiring Sen. Gary Peters (D-Mich.). But the race is about far more than one Senate seat — it’s a referendum on where Democrats go next.

Alex: Drop Site team at Drop Site News is on the same story, with a piece titled How a Squandered Democratic Trifecta Is Pushing Michigan Left.

Alex: Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack) is on the same story, with a piece titled Will Francesca Hong and Abdul El-Sayed Get Elected?.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 03: “Get Lit” Livestream, 4:30 pm ET: The Finale of Dostoevsky's “Demons”. Illustrated by Daniel Medina Join us at 4:30 PM ET at: Substack Rumble YouTube You can also find us on X, @mtaibbi or @waywardrabbler . See you soon!

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Cartel member found playing Padel. How did we find Ian Dixon, a wanted member of the Kinahan cartel, on a padel court in Dubai? Search Party recounts how Bellingcat and traced the digital trail that led to the alleged money handler for one of the world's most dangerous crime cartels. ...

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Moderate Democrats have a choice to make. Do they want to help their party win, or do they want to whine about the left?

Alex: Bellingcat shared: "Inside The Membership Model" with Bellingcat's Development Team | Podcast Episode on. This week, we explored how our work is funded - what keeps our open-source collective's lights on? Bellingcat's Sarah Bishop Woods and Mareike Vitt, both members of our Development Team, joined us to ...

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: GOP Senator Calls on Rep. Max Miller to Resign. Roger Marshall states the the Ohio lawmaker should step down

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: El Salvadoran Man Held by ICE at Delaney Hall Dies, Family Says. The detainee had an extensive medical history, including epilepsy, according to a lawsuit. He had complained about his face and hand going numb just before his death, his mother said.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: MS: One of your criticisms of Fauci is that he said one thing publicly, where he sort of downplayed the virus, & one thing privately, where he acknowledge its seriousness. President Trump did exact the same thing. Does Trump deserve the same level of scrutiny? RAND PAUL: *immediately changes topic*

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Sen. Husted won't call for Rep. Max Miller to withdraw from running for reelection despite abuse horrible allegations: "Let's focus on letting them sort through this on a family level"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.