Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, September 23, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 23: Trump threatens to “annihilate” Iran, Tehran calls it “strategic desperation”; Greenland signs deal expanding U.S. presence. Wednesday, September 23, 2026 – President Donald Trump threatens to “annihilate” Iran in speech at UN General Assembly. Iran military warns of “more crushing” attacks after Trump threats. Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva warns against foreign election interference, defends Brazil’s sovereignty in UN Speech.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 23: Inside the Armed Incursion From Florida Intended to Topple Cuba’s Government. Last March, when I traveled to Cuba on a reporting trip, I had a number of things I was trying to find out, but chief among them was the mystery of the ill-fated assault on Cuba launched from the Florida keys by a band of Cuban-Americans hoping to overthrow the government.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 23: Democrats capitulate to MAGA media mogul. The combined company would own two of the largest movie studios (Paramount Pictures and Warner Bros. Pictures), two of the largest streaming platforms (Paramount+ and HBO Max), and a slew of broadcast and cable TV networks (CBS, CNN, MTV, Nickelodeon, Comedy Central, Showtime, HBO, TNT, TBS, truTV, Animal Planet, Cartoon Network, and Food Network).

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Judd Legum, titled 1. California Attorney General Rob Bonta and 11 other Democratic AGs had Paramount and the Ellisons over a bar....

Sam: Drop Site team at Drop Site News is on the same story, with a piece titled D.C. co-opts Troy Jackson campaign; Fierce clashes in Yemen as Saudi reopens pipeline; Paramount clears path for Warner Bros merger.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 22: AI Lending Is Risky Lending. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 New in The Lever : Democrats say their Paramount merger deal is a victory. The fine print suggests otherwise . 👀 Watch : This U.S. senator is blaming his colleague’s behavior on a “failure of leadership.” 👇 Further down in this newsletter: The tech trend luring banks into riskier behavior.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 22: The Fine Print In Democrats’ Hollywood Merger Surrender. Democrats just signed off on a massive consolidation of Hollywood power, striking a settlement deal in a 12-state antitrust lawsuit that will now allow Paramount Skydance’s attempted $111 billion takeover of Warner Bros. Discovery to move forward. California Gov.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: The trickle of Republicans opposing Trump will become a flood. The risk of bucking him is now outweighed by the risk of NOT opposing him.

Sam: Ken Klippenstein shared: Leak: Full Metal Jackasses. Logan Paul’s Pentagon cameo follows Nicki Minaj, Tim Tebow UN stunts

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Video Analysis Shows Two Waves of Bombings in Iran Elementary School Strike. A UN fact-finding mission has claimed that a Feb. 28 missile strike on the Shajareh Tayyebeh school in Minab, Iran, that killed more than 150 people likely constitutes a war crime. Bellingcat was the first to identify the weapon that hit the school as a US Tomahawk missile.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Marco Rubio on Venezuelan oil claims the Trump regime is "making sure the money is going to benefit the Venezuelan people, not going to the pocket of some corrupt official that was benefitting from the natural resources of that country"

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "Canada is destroying itself by allowing millions & millions into the Country, essentially unchecked & unvetted, & who are causing problems that'll soon be too big to handle. It is a Liberal takeover that will end very badly. Already showing up in their numbers. Big unemployment. ‘Oh Canada!"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: “As he pursued boxing, Constantino was also trying to launch what he marketed as a ‘happy’ social media company...On the site, called Stimulus, his persona was lighthearted, if juvenile; he made at least three posts about eating soups containing animal penis.”

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.