Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, September 02, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 02: LA County sues State Farm for false advertising, stiffing wildfire victims. Hailee Steinfeld in State Farm’s 2026 Super Bowl commercial Jake from State Farm, call your office. The company kicked off 2026 with a splashy Super Bowl commercial featuring two popular comedic actors, Danny McBride and Keegan-Michael Key, as insurance agents for a fictional State Farm competitor, Halfway There Insurance.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 01: AOC: Democrats Shouldn’t Be Afraid To Use Presidential Power. While condemning President Donald Trump ’s “record level of lawbreaking,” Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) told The Lever today that Democrats shouldn’t be afraid to use the newly expanded powers of the Oval Office to deliver their agenda should they win the presidency in 2028.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 01: What the Hasan Piker Freakout Is Really About. Abdul El-Sayed with Hasan Piker Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive. Litigating Piker’s comments about Israel not representing all Jews is, in fact, a fool’s errand.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 01: Leaked Files Reveal Uganda’s Secret Drone Deals with Israel. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Israel’s Restrictions on Engine Oil Threaten Gaza’s Ability to Generate Electricity.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 01: Opioid Settlements Are Paying For Flock Cameras. Create a FREE account, or log in. Registered readers of The Lever get access to a limited number of free articles every month, breaking news alerts, and our Lever Daily newsletter. SIGN UP FREE Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. Already have an account? Sign in

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 01: Before Deadly Floods, Trump Diverted Emergency Responders To Beautify D.C.. Before this week’s Grand Canyon flash floods left at least two people dead and stranded 80 in the national park, President Donald Trump’s Interior Department moved 300 specialized emergency response personnel from across the country to the capital — not to prepare for disaster, but to help with his pet “beautification” projects.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 01: 2,030 Israeli attacks in West Bank in August; Postal Service plan could disenfranchise millions; Nepal death toll passes 1,000. Tuesday, September 1, 2026 – Tankers attacked in Strait of Hormuz. Death toll from U.S. attack on Larak Island rises to three. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps claims it shot down U.S. MQ-9 drone over Strait of Hormuz. Iran says U.S. must fulfill Islamabad Memorandum of Understanding commitments, Tehran will “immediately” reciprocate.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "We have hundreds of happy construction workers in DC busily doing their job building finest Ballroom/Military complex anywhere... It was a long, hard, fight in the Court System, but the winner is, as always under 'TRUMP,' the USA. Also, it is important to remember it is a 400 Million gift"

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Lutnick on why he thinks GDP growth is higher than the actual numbers: "That would put you well over 3% if the IEEPA case with the Supreme Court had gone the other way. You'll see that the tariffs are gonna be back in place over the next couple weeks."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Lutnick pushes fracturing of Canada: "This is about the Liberal Party & Carney trying to use a kerfuffle w/ the US to gai leverage. They've got the sovereign party vote in Quebec on Oct 5. They've got an independence vote that starts the process of Alberta, who always feels ripped off by Ottawa... "

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.