Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, September 16, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 16: Palestinian-American Journalist Naqaa Hamed Detained by Israeli Forces After Settlers Targeted Her. Palestinian-American journalist Naqaa Hamed. Courtesy: Hamed’s family. RAMALLAH, Occupied West Bank—Palestinian-American journalist and Drop Site News contributor Naqaa Hamed was arrested by Israeli authorities at a checkpoint on Tuesday as she was returning from a reporting assignment in the occupied West Bank, according to her colleagues and family.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Top Yemeni Journalist: Saudi Arabia Could Lose Territory to Ansarallah.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled U.S. Makes, Israel Takes: The Real Story of U.S.-Israeli Military Cooperation.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Mahmoud Khalil Sues Columbia University Over Persistent Anti-Palestinian Discrimination.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 16: Corporate mercenary is a bipartisan profession. For example, in the 2026 cycle alone, AI executives and corporations have donated $42 million to MAGA Inc., Trump’s super PAC. But the political winds may be changing. Trump’s popularity is near an all-time low. Republicans could lose control of one or both chambers of Congress in November’s midterm elections.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 15: Spaceballs. Air Force Secretary Troy Meink Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive. The coverage was bristling with Cold War-era defense-speak: deterrence, stability, signaling.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 15: Why Are Dems Touting Their Capture By AI Oligarchs?. I have long argued that Democrats’ 2026 midterm election prospects hinge on their party making a compelling anti-corruption argument against Donald Trump, the tech oligarchy and the larger Washington swamp.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 15: Crypto legislation would greenlight Trump corruption. Critically, the Clarity Act assigns most regulatory responsibility to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), a small agency with a permissive approach to industry oversight, instead of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), which has a much more rigorous approach to regulation and enforcement.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Judd Legum, titled 1. The crypto industry is desperate to pass the Clarity Act, which would legitimize its business by providing ....

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Alito and Thomas keep the pedal to the metal. Their mail voting dissent is legal hackery. But it makes sense politically.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: OOF -- Enten details how Trump went from +2 on Russia-Ukraine in 2024 to -33 (!) now, and how Zelenskyy polls among Americans at +13 compared to Trump's -18 (in other words, Zelenskyy is 31 points more popular in America than Trump!)

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: FOX NEWS: Is this where we are in America with the price of gasoline for the foreseeable future? CHRIS WRIGHT: Look, President Trump is simply not going to allow Iran to get nuclear weapons (So, yes!)

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: NEWSNATION: Trump is nearly 2 years into his second term here & we often hear Republicans, including yourself, blame Biden. But at what point does Trump take responsibility for this? REP. TONY WIED: If you look at it, these are geopolitical issues that have been going on for decades and decades

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.