Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Thursday, September 03, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Popular Information, Racket News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 03: “Get Lit” September 3, 2026: William Faulkner’s “As I Lay Dying.” Part II of a Discussion.. Illustrated by Daniel Medina L ink Here: How to Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Automated transcripts can be found on the web browser or app version below the byline. Share the Free Episodes of Get Lit: Watch Get Lit on YouTube below: Read more

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 03: How a GOP super PAC tricked a grieving father into appearing in a political ad. Ronald Hayes appears in a Senate Leadership Fund ad. On August 5, the Senate Leadership Fund (SLF), the super PAC of Senate Republicans, announced a new television ad attacking Roy Cooper, the Democratic nominee for U.S. Senate in North Carolina. The ad features Ronald Hayes, whose son Shemar was murdered in 2024.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 03: How Troy Jackson Can Put Collins' Career On The Chopping Block. LISTEN NOW: Maine’s Sen. Susan Collins (R) has won five elections in a row, and a Democrat has not won a United States Senate seat in the state since 1988 — but polls suggest Mainers have reached a breaking point. They’re tired of corruption and inaction from establishment politicians in Washington, D.C., and they’re clamoring for change.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 02: Down With Freedom!. From a panel discussion on CNN : Kmele Foster: It’s one thing to not think capitalism isn’t working ideally. It’s another thing entirely to insist that it is oppressive, that it is bound up with white supremacy. Jemele Hill: How is it not? Once, the American political divide created a nervous stasis.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 02: Midterm Madness: In Through The Pac Door. 🗳️ This is Midterm Madness , the only newsletter you need to stay up to date on election news. Key race updates, money trails, numbers that cut through the spin, and campaign moments that say more than official talking points ever will — from The Lever team to your inbox, every Wednesday. 👇 Further down in this newsletter: A progressive veteran defended his Senate seat.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Forest Lake school board candidate moonlights as punk rocker fighting 'fascism' |. Forest Lake school board candidate Claire Luger has has performed at “No Kings” rallies sporting "Fight Fascism" t-shirts.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: 2026 Online Journalism Awards Winners. Bellingcat is thrilled to announce that we're a finalist in five categories at the Online Journalism Awards this year. We’re incredibly proud of this work — produced by our team and alongside some brilliant partner organisations. /

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: How Trump tanked Canadian conservatives. "Carney's approval in Canada surged to 60 percent last week, after he rejected Trump’s 'counteroffers.' Those are the kind of eye-popping levels of support that a self-deluding Trump boasts about, when in fact he suffers from his lowest approval ratings to date."

Sam: Bellingcat shared: Waarom criminelen een dreigvideo voor Jan G. maakten | RENZE. Bellingcat researcher spoke on the Dutch talkshow ‘RENZE’ yesterday about his analysis of the authenticity of a video of armed men threatening 'Jan G'. The video surfaced following an armed attack in Overasselt reportedly linked to drug trafficking. youtu.be/gBwy0WTB6s8?...

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: Mamdani issues AI moratorium in NYC schools. Kids "need to wrestle with tough problems on their own,” New York's mayor said Wednesday.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "For the treasonous SCUM that refuses to accurately report on our Military Operation in Iran, we have virtually unlimited amounts of Mid to High Grade Ammunition, far more than we could ever use for this, or for any other War (which is highly unlikely!), that could improbably take place."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: generous with her time, space and mind til the end. may she rest in peace knowing she gave so many of the strength to do the work, and that we’ll carry it forward with the wind of her spirit in our sails. we love you, gloria.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Judd Legum wrote: 1. A Senate Republican super PAC tricked a grieving father into appearing in a political ad. A GOP operative targeted A SUPPORT GROUP FOR THE PARENTS OF MURDER VICTIMS offering an opportunity to speak about their children and gun violence.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.