Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, July 31, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 31: Editor's Note: Fauci Stories Unlocked. Some readers reached out this week, saying they wished they could share articles like, “ After Fauci Debacle, Our Idiot Press Circles the Wagons .” That story is now unlocked, so you can send the link above and the story will be open.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Matt Taibbi, titled The Fauci Legend Will Not Die!.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Matt Taibbi, titled After Fauci Debacle, Our Idiot Press Circles the Wagons.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 31: The first eight years and the next eight years of Popular Information. “To write the truth as I see it; to defend the weak against the strong; to fight for justice; and to seek, as best I can, to bring healing perspectives to bear on the terrible hates and fears of mankind…” That is how investigative reporter I.F. Stone, who died in 1989, described his role as a journalist. Stone pursued these goals by publishing I.F.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published July 31: The Pentagon’s New Missile Gap. From almost the beginning of the Iran war, the experts have complained that the Pentagon is running out of missiles, a supposed problem that says more about the nature of the national security debate than the state of the US military. Washington officials are stuck on this half-propaganda, half-operational conundrum.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 30: He Left The GOP. Now He Has A Warning For Democrats.. LISTEN NOW: Reed Galen grew up inside the Republican Party establishment, but in 2016, he left the party and later co-founded The Lincoln Project, an anti-Trump political action committee. Now he has a warning for the Democratic Party. Today on Lever Time , David Sirota sits down with Galen to learn why the Democrats are sleepwalking toward a dangerous point of no return.

Alex: Matt Taibbi at Racket News is on the same story, with a piece titled “Get Lit" July 30, 2026: In Dostoyevsky's Demons, a Ridiculous Party Precedes Bloodshed.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 30: Trump and NYT Say There’s a Russian Spy Base in Cuba. Turns Out, It’s a School.. This abandoned watchtower is one of the few structures left from the Lourdes spy base in Cuba. Photo: Reed Lindsay. This story was written in collaboration with Belly of the Beast , an independent media outlet that covers Cuba and U.S.-Cuba relations. You can support their work on Patreon . Since U.S.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 30: A Detention And Deportation Gold Mine. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 👀 Watch: Oligarchs exploited 9/11 to build an all-powerful presidency . 👇 Further down in this newsletter: How Trump is turning his immigration crackdown into cash. What happened to reforming FISA? The investors betting on Elon Musk’s downfall. STORIES TO GO In a hurry? These are the top stories in the country today.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Seth Cotlar on historical roots of the new Red Scare. "If you look at the 1956 GOP platform, it reads like a center-left policy platform in a contemporary context."

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Jim Jordan self-immolates on CNN. Jim Jordan self-immolates on CNN Jordan had nothing when pressed on why Blanche deserves to be AG when he refuses to put his opposition to Trump's corruption in writing, then made things worse when he stammered about how he can continue to support Max Miller despite accusations of brutal abuse

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Assault, misogyny, verbal threats: Records detail new allegations against Rep. Max Miller. Police reports and filings in a bitter custody dispute raise new questions about the conduct of an Ohio Republican as he campaigns for a third term.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Hassett: "Data centers are very good for towns bc they create so many jobs & bring people in with high incomes that can buy houses & stuff like that. So if you take a sleepy town that hasn't seen much in the last 30 years & put a data center there, there are gonna be a bunch of happy residents."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: "Well, that wasn't great ... fair to say Ossoff won that exchange" -- MS NOW reacts to Rep. Mike Collins crashing out and ending a press conference when asked question about his close ties to a prominent neo-Nazi

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.