Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, September 30, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 9 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 30: Trump’s Next War? Leaked Plans Reveal Escalation in Cuba and Iran. From leaked reports showing the U.S. Army preparing potential options around Cuba to the U.S. Navy’s strategic tactical shift away from the Iranian blockade line, Murtaza Hussain and Sarmad Jawad analyze what’s driving these moves—and what Trump’s post-midterm foreign policy strategy could look like.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 30: Crash of Tel Aviv flight narrowly averted after pilot fight; Ban on Canadian goods; Supreme Court allows Trump’s deportations to resume. Wednesday, September 30, 2026 – Iran : Iran says it received U.S. response to Strait of Hormuz proposal. U.S. sanctions ten entities in China, Pakistan, Turkey, Saudi Arabia over Iran arms procurement. U.S. offers 40 million barrels from strategic reserve. Qatari Prime Minister says Iran war pushed country into budget deficit.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 30: Massacre at Minab: The School That Became a Grave. Illustration: Images drawn by Fatemeh Zahra Bahrami, a child who survived the school bombing at Minab, provided to Drop Site. In the background, the cemetery where the victims are buried. On the morning of Saturday, February 28, people across Iran began their day like any other.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 30: Watch Trump's new chatbot debunk his lies. “Instead of forcing citizens to search through the endless maze of tens of thousands of terrible government websites and rules and more than 10,000 forms,” Trump said, Americans will visit America.gov. That is the vision, but currently, America.gov is not integrated with the services of federal agencies.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 30: The Global Shell Game Hiding Forever Chemicals. This story was published in collaboration with the Investigative Reporting Lab at Yale . I grew up walking the boardwalk in downtown Wilmington, North Carolina, peering into the froth of the Cape Fear River. The name came from 16th-century mariners who feared its mouth, which was known to churn ships into wrecks.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 29: The Financial System Can’t Afford To Treat You Fairly. We all sense that the American economy is one big con game, in which we’re the mark. But one of the world’s largest Wall Street firms just accidentally confessed that truth in a warning to the investor class.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 29: Two Oil Tankers Freed From Pirates Off the Coast of Somalia. MOGADISHU, Somalia—The maritime force for Somalia’s semi-autonomous Puntland region has seized control of two separate hijacked oil tankers, Puntland security sources tell Drop Site News.

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 29: How MAGA Inc. raised so much money. Trump has made it clear that he has complete authority over the funds, although such direct control is prohibited by law. “This is money from MAGA Inc. This is my money that I control,” Trump said. “I can spend it for what I want to spend it for.” The amount raised by Trump’s super PAC is unprecedented.

Alex: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 29: Why Won’t Congress Stand Up To Trump? (With Chris Van Hollen). Has Congress given away too much of its authority? And what should a future Democratic president do with the “full scope of power” the executive branch now holds? In this premium bonus episode of Master Plan: The Kingmakers , we’re sharing David Sirota’s full interview with Sen.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Schmitt happens all over effort to perjury trap Jack Smith. "Schmitt says he stands by his claim that Smith is a 'dirtbag' and a perjurer. And with that kind of commitment to the bit, he’s definitely a shoe-in for the VP spot."

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Klobuchar: "The fact that when people are hurting this much and literally can't pay their bills & insurance premiums, that he then spends govt money instead of to help people pay for their insurance, on an ad to glorify himself. They are making the connection now on corruption and affordability."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Judd Legum wrote: 1. On Tuesday morning, Trump unveiled America dot gov, which he described as “the ultimate product.” Right now, it is basically a chatbot that draws data from official government websites. As a result it is brutally efficient at debunking Trump’s lies.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Rep. Rich McCormick on data centers: "They're not gonna use your water. They're gonna keep your electricity rate low. They're gonna pay for your teachers, schools, roads, most likely your property taxes. You're gonna have more jobs. It's gonna be an amazing thing to have in your neighborhood."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.