Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, September 12, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 12: You Love To See It: Holy Habitat, Batman!. Good things are happening! Conservationists score two teaspoons of triumph, workers pour a tall glass of solidarity, attorneys general assemble for vital healthcare, and buffalo regain their home on the range. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 12: PopInfo Weekly: Fantasies, fabrications, and fuel. Elon Musk, the world’s richest person, is funding an aggressive advertising campaign encouraging people in key states to check their registration status on votesafe.org. Musk’s website collects extensive personal information from users, profiles them and tracks their internet use. It then shares this data with X, Meta, Google, and other online advertising companies.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 11: Fuck 9/11. Union Square memorial to those killed on 9/11, on September 18, 2001 | Getty Twenty-five years later, 9/11 anniversaries have devolved into a grotesque fundraising orgy for the security state.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 11: Saudi-Backed Forces ROUTED in Yemen as Oil Surges and War Spirals. Twenty-five years after 9/11, the United States is again fighting a major war in the Middle East.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled How Ansarallah Swept Past Saudi-Backed Forces to Control Yemen’s Red Sea Coast.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Ansarallah completes takeover of Yemen’s Red Sea coast, strikes Saudi pipeline; Oil tops $108.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 11: Who Let The Bots Out?. Did Bidenomics work? Why can Republicans coordinate campaign funds? And what happens to incumbents that democratic socialists defeat? The answers to these questions and many more can be found in LeverMind , our weekly news quiz testing your knowledge of the developments that really matter — and who needs to be held accountable. You have 30 seconds for each question.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 11: Democrats Are Urging Trump to Re-Escalate on North Korea. Rep. Gregory Meeks, D-N.Y., walks down the House steps after the last votes of the week in the U.S. This article is being co-published with Capital & Empire .

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Mike Johnson runs out the clock on his own speakership. New in PN: Mike Johnson runs out the clock on his own speakership "He hasn't had *any* agenda beyond serving Trump.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Two weird nights in Texas. We discuss Trumpapalooza and whether JD Vance can win over the Trump cult.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Hecklers shout ‘hE should be shot’ as Ted Cruz calls out El-Sayed and Talarico. Republicans increasingly seek to tie Democrats to left-wing members of the caucus and personalities like Hasan Piker

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "The Houthis called us. They don't want to fight with us. They let us know they don't want to fight with us. They don't want us to go after them. They would much prefer not having us involved, and they are letting most ships go through. There's just one country they're not too happy with."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Q: What do you say to people in Ireland who say the US is facilitating genocide in Gaza? TRUMP: When you say Gaza, we put out the fire. There's very little happening right now in Gaza. That's not the place that people are talking about now. We facilitated a peace of a kind.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: "Some Republicans have expressed concern that a small but growing faction of younger people in the party have interacted with or expressed fealty to white nationalist and racist ideologies that have long been considered fringe." O RLY

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.