Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, September 26, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 9 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 25: Iran War Victims Put Trump’s Power Grab On Trial. Families of victims of President Donald Trump’s war in Iran just filed an unprecedented lawsuit asking a federal judge to decide a constitutional question Washington has evaded for decades: Can a president wage war without the approval of Congress?

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 25: Trump Announces New “AI Force”. Space Force personnel Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive. “I am forming the AI Force, much like I did [the] Space Force,” Donald Trump said last Saturday.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 25: Democratic Party Consultants Surround Troy Jackson with Pro-Israel Donors. The Troy Jackson campaign in Maine may have found a new way to measure just how far Democratic Party consultants are able to drag a candidate away from his grassroots supporters.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 25: LeverMind Quiz: Dude, Where’s My Antitrust Case?. How many skeletons are in Congress’ closet? Who’s ruining youth sports? And is there any check on Paramount’s power? The answers to these questions and many more can be found in LeverMind , our weekly news quiz testing your knowledge of the developments that really matter — and who needs to be held accountable. You have 30 seconds for each question.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 25: Iran pushes 7-day plan to end war; Saudi calls on regional pact for defense; Argentina’s poverty rate climbs to over 32%. Friday, September 25, 2026 – Iran pushes seven-day plan to end U.S. war in meetings with Qatari, Pakistani mediators. Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian says Tehran open to nuclear verification, agreement with U.S. Iran warns “flights for everyone or no one” as UAE, Iraq enforce U.S. aviation sanctions.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 25: Live Free Speech Discussion, 2:00 PM ET Today: Interview With Russian Journalist Dimitri Simes. Racket readers should recall an interview published in this space in March with Dimitri Simes, a prominent Russian journalist who in August of 2024 became inveigled in one of the strangest and most disturbing speech cases of our times. While he and wife Anastasia Rurikova Simes were away, the FBI raided his Virginia home, seizing all his possessions but one.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 25: PopInfo Weekly: Stocks, smears, and settlements. MAGA Inc., President Trump’s super PAC, has spent nearly $2.5 million on ads attacking Democrats for making stock trades while in Congress and in some instances failing to disclose the trades on time. What the ads don’t mention is that Trump himself has traded more securities since returning to office than all members of Congress combined (and often reported them late).

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 25: AI Regulation Was Coming. Then Trump Killed It.. The investigation below raises a disturbing question: What if rogue AI agents are learning from the secrecy and rule-breaking of the humans who created them? Two years before this month’s nationwide panic over the apocalyptic potential of artificial intelligence, a first wave of Silicon Valley resignations began — and so did the omens of human extinction.

Alex: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 25: The Machines Escaped. Their Masters Did So First.. “Misalignment.” In the wake of artificial intelligence hacks, break-ins, and mini-disasters, that’s what technologists call the terrifying gap between what we want AI to do and what AI is actually doing. But much of what we are seeing is better described as AI’s accelerated super-alignment with the mundane behaviors of its Silicon Valley creators.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: The view from Canada: Make America Think Again. New in PN — The view from Canada: Make America Think Again "Canadians marvel that Americans were foolish enough to put Trump in office a second time.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Won’t Xi be my friend?. The guy who says he hates communism is quite fond of communist dictators.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Q: Mr Sununu, would you have voted for a war powers resolution in the Senate? JOHN SUNUNU: Q: Would you admit that Trump’s war was a bad decision, or are you just going to do everything that Trump tells you to do? JOHN SUNUNU:

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: In a new investigation Bellingcat and reconstruct and analyse more than a dozen Malian military drone strikes, that have repeatedly hit civilian areas and reportedly resulted in the deaths of non-combatants.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.