Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Sunday, September 06, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 2 stories from outlets like The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 06: Lever Weekly: Natural Gaslighting. Create a FREE account, or log in. Registered readers of The Lever get access to a limited number of free articles every month, breaking news alerts, and our Lever Daily newsletter. SIGN UP FREE Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. Already have an account? Sign in

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 05: You Love To See It: A Progressive Puts Human Rights On A Local Ballot. Good things are happening! A progressive insurgent enters the global chat, Flock blockers join forces, payday predators get punished, and a closed-door corporate deal goes up in smoke. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: RADDATZ: You attacked the Maduro regime as a "socialist dictatorship." Delcy Rodriguez was the VP of that regime. Why do you trust her? CHRIS WRIGHT: We have a lot of leverage over Venezuela. We control the sale of oil outside of their country. Right now they are forced to work in partnership w/ us

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Chris Wright now says there may be no deal with Iran after all: "There may not be a nuclear agreement. It may be simply destroying their capabilities to do it. An agreement may await the next administration in Iran. We simply don't know that."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Beyond parody -- Chris Wright blames Ukraine and Biden for record high diesel prices: "The single biggest factor has been the Ukrainian destruction of Russian refineries ... the Biden administration closed over a dozen refineries"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.