Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, August 15, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 14: EXCLUSIVE: Elon Musk’s Banking Empire Just Got Gov. Hochul’s Blessing. New York Gov. Kathy Hochul ’s administration just quietly greenlit Elon Musk ’s long-running ambitions to build his own banking system into X, The Lever has learned from public records.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 14: The Covid Cover-Up Suffers a Blow in Court. U.S. District Judge Trevor McFadden has ruled against the Defense Intelligence Agency in an ongoing Freedom of Information case, filed by the U.S.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 14: Who’s Buying The Democratic Party?. Who’s processing your taxes? How many data centers can a state have? And how’d Wisconsin’s elections go? The answers to these questions and many more can be found in LeverMind , our weekly news quiz testing your knowledge of the developments that really matter — and who needs to be held accountable. You have 30 seconds for each question.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published August 14: Leak: Top Democratic Org's “Anti-Extremism” Project Targets Left. Third Way, a prominent Democratic lobby group in Washington, has a new multi-million dollar effort to “combat extremism” on the “far-left,” an internal staff email leaked to me reveals. “[E]xtreme far-left voices gaining purchase over the past year … represent a sharp break from a traditional left wing in American politics,” the July 23 email says.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 14: Hormuz grinds to a halt again; Gaza’s cancer patients dying at 2-3 times prewar rate; DHS surveilled left-wing groups in Minnesota. Friday, August 14, 2026 – Two ships attacked in Strait of Hormuz, UAE blames Iran. U.S. sends new carrier to Middle East. Traffic through Hormuz seems to grind to a halt. U.S. threatens economic punishment for Iran that has “never been seen” as War Secretary Pete Hegseth vows indefinite blockade. U.S. has lost 45 MQ-9 Reaper drones, roughly 25% of fleet, in Iran war.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 14: How Vivek Ramaswamy’s mom manipulated Alzheimer’s data and made her son rich. In 2014, Ramaswamy founded Axovant, a company he used to buy the rights to an inauspicious Alzheimer’s drug that had repeatedly failed in clinical trials. Axovant then hired Ramaswamy’s mother, who, despite lacking relevant research experience, helped massage data from old clinical trials to make the drug appear more promising.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: USS Abraham Lincoln sailors tried to jump overboard amid extended deployment – reports. Aircraft carrier’s crew in ninth month at sea and has spent record 250 days consecutively without making land

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Exclusive | U.S. and Ukrainian Forces Went Head-to-Head in an Exercise. Ukraine’s Drones Won.. A battlefield drill this spring showed that the Pentagon hasn’t fully absorbed the lessons of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: You don’t have to hand it to Richard Hanania. The so-called "former" white supremacist's work doesn't show accountability—or that he's actually moved on from his earlier views, Christopher Mathias writes.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.