Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, September 05, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 8 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Racket News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 05: You Love To See It: A Progressive Puts Human Rights On A Local Ballot. Good things are happening! A progressive insurgent enters the global chat, Flock blockers join forces, payday predators get punished, and a closed-door corporate deal goes up in smoke. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 04: Note on a Mistrial. Nine years ago I was assigned to write a story about Donald Trump and the 25th Amendment. I was given the numbers of mental health professionals ready to say Trump was crazy. It was not to be quickie commentary; I was sent on the road to follow the president.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 04: This Senate Frontrunner Oversaw “Quality And Compliance.” Women Suffered “Life-Altering Harm.”. In 2012, long before he began angling to return to Congress in this year’s New Hampshire Senate race, former Sen. John Sununu (R) was overseeing product safety and government relations for medical-device giant Boston Scientific — just as it found itself mired in one of the biggest medical-injury scandals in recent memory.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 04: Chris Deluzio On John Fetterman: “A Failure Of Leadership”. Rep. Chris Deluzio, a trailblazing populist Democrat from western Pennsylvania, told The Lever he’s “pissed” at Sen. John Fetterman (D-Pa.).

Alex: Drop Site team at Drop Site News is on the same story, with a piece titled Jeffrey Sachs: America’s “Legacy of Delusion” Fueling Financial Bubble & Iran Failure.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 04: Listen to This Article: Down With Freedom!. Liberalism has morphed into its opposite. Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 09/02/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts Read more

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 04: The Billionaire-Backed Democrat With An Enron-Sized Problem. In the lead-up to Tuesday’s primary election for New Hampshire’s open first congressional district, Democratic candidate and military veteran Maura Sullivan has touted her Obama administration credentials and private sector experience. Left unmentioned is her more recent work for a Boston biotechnology company with a track record of legal troubles.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 04: “I Still Hear the Voices”: Wedding Guests Recall Horror of U.S. Bombing in Southern Iran. Damage to buildings in the aftermath of a U.S. strike on a wedding party in Kuhestak, Sirik County, in the Hormozgan Province of Iran. TEHRAN, Iran—Hundreds of guests had gathered in two family homes in Kuhestak, a coastal village in Iran’s southern Hormozgan province near the Strait of Hormuz, for a wedding celebration on Tuesday night when the missiles struck.

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 04: Trump calls reporters covering waning munitions “treasonous SCUM”; U.S. imposes even more Cuba sanctions; Scores killed in Yemen clashes. Friday, September 4, 2026 – Death toll from U.S. strike on wedding in Sirik rises to five. Iranian authorities report intercepting stockpiled weapons on Pakistan border. IRGC arrests suspected Kurdish militants carrying munitions near Iraqi border. European Union to join U.S. economic pressure campaign against Iran, Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent claims.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: “The administration wrote to several grantees working on maternal health that while ‘maternal and infant health are important issues,’ their work ‘does not advance minority health with regards to OMH’s current priority areas.’” we don’t loathe these people enough.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Newsom: "Do you know how much his supporters lost on that memecoin? It's down 98%. They lost $3.8 billion. His supporters. And he took home over $600 million. That says everything you need to know about the president of the United States, Donald Trump, about who this man is."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Newsom in South Carolina: "You have a governor who refuses to pull a pen out of his pocket to provide healthcare for tens of thousands of people that are desperate for it by simple expanding Medicaid which he could do tomorrow"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.