Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Thursday, September 24, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 24: Trump rolls out red carpet for Xi; Israel blocks wheelchairs for Gaza’s amputee children; Argentine president threatens Falklands. Thursday, September 24, 2026 – Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian vows Iran will fight “until our last breath” in UN speech. Venezuela's acting President Delcy Rodriguez promises elections "at the right moment" in first UN address. Argentine President Javier Milei threatens unilateral Argentine action on Falklands, calls UN “useless” at General Assembly.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 24: DoorDash admits it “screwed up,” will pay NYC workers over $100 million. The company will pay more than $115 million to over 260,000 workers who were underpaid. DoorDash will also pay over $16 million in civil penalties and costs.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 23: Feds Target AI Critics As “Foreign Agents”. CCP recruits young, apparently Don’t miss part II of this story - subscribe below Anxiety over AI and data centers is widely held, but somehow the Trump administration has convinced itself the public concern was manufactured in China.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Ken Klippenstein, titled Feds Think AI Critics Are Foreign Agents.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 23: Why Rodrigo Paz Is Trying to Distance Himself From “MAGA’s Man in Latin America”. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 23: As Damascus Hangs Back, Syrians Have Been Left to Fend Off Israeli Occupation on Their Own. Hamada Msallam stands in front of his house in Kuwayya in southwestern Syria, overlooking Wadi Al Raqqad which separates him from the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights. NAWA, Syria—”The Israelis passed through five other villages to get to us,” Abdullah Al-Saqr said.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 23: Midterm Madness: Big Crypto’s Double Tap. 🗳️ This is Midterm Madness , the only newsletter you need to stay up to date on election news. Key race updates, money trails, numbers that cut through the spin, and campaign moments that say more than official talking points ever will — from The Lever team to your inbox, every Wednesday.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 23: Trump threatens to “annihilate” Iran, Tehran calls it “strategic desperation”; Greenland signs deal expanding U.S. presence. Wednesday, September 23, 2026 – President Donald Trump threatens to “annihilate” Iran in speech at UN General Assembly. Iran military warns of “more crushing” attacks after Trump threats. Brazilian President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva warns against foreign election interference, defends Brazil’s sovereignty in UN Speech.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: SnapStream - Try It For Free Like Aaron Rupar. SnapStream is how Aaron Rupar posts newsworthy clips as they happen. Try it for free here.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: “Cheat like hell”. "Trump cheats in every aspect of his life. He cheated on his taxes & wives. He cheated his way out of military service & into the WH. He cheated contractors & donors who made contributions to his now-banned charity.

Alex: Ken Klippenstein shared: The Source Behind The Ban. The anonymous source behind one of the stories the White House cited to justify banning POLITICO was none other than Vice President JD Vance, Status has learned.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: SANDERS: Trump claims we pay lowest prices in the world for prescription drugs. Wow! Is he telling the truth? OVERTON: There has been immense progress- S: Do we pay lowest prices like POTUS said? You just told us you're gonna stand up to him O: We have seen- S: Is it true? O: *more dissembling*

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Ossoff: "Sen. John Thune is coming to Georgia to campaign for the congressman. The senator therefore needs to answer whether he will denounce Mike Collins's extensive ties to white nationalism and neo-Nazi ideology."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: How do you trace organised crime through open sources? Learn practical OSINT techniques for investigating illicit networks, corporate structures, vessels and aircraft, with real Bellingcat case studies. 12–13 October 2026. ...

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.