Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, July 22, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 22: Israel‘s Secret Sales Pitch to Provide Surveillance Drones to the UAE. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers. On May 12, U.S.

Sam: And Aaron Rupar weighed in on Bluesky: Tom Cotton: "Ultimately, it's not about Prime Minster Netanyahu and Israel -- it's about arresting Donald Trump and Pete Hegseth and Marco Rubio in the future if they ever travel abroad."

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Attacks in the Strait of Hormuz; Israel kills 57 Palestinians in Gaza in one week; No more elections in Nicaragua, Ortega says.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 22: The AI Boom Runs On Toxic Air. Drive through the heart of the Permian Basin in West Texas, and the scale of the area’s oil and gas industry is undeniable. Tens of thousands of active wells, drill rigs, pipeline corridors, and flare stacks cover this 86,000-square-mile stretch of West Texas and southeastern New Mexico. At night, flare after flare burns orange against the dark sky.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 22: Amid legal crisis, health care exec sends $1 million to MAGA Inc.. On May 26, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) sent a letter to QOL Medical, a pharmaceutical company, with some serious allegations. The potential consequences pose an existential threat to the company. In response, QOL Medical’s CEO, Frederick “Derick” Cooper, wrote a $1 million check to MAGA Inc., President Trump’s super PAC.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 21: Francesca Hong Wants To Be America’s First Socialist Governor. LISTEN NOW: The Wisconsin Democratic primary for governor has gone haywire. Over the last week, Lt. Gov. Sara Rodriguez dropped out amid a campaign finance scandal, and a candidate who had suspended his campaign, Milwaukee County Executive David Crowley, rejoined the race — immediately nabbing an influential endorsement from current Gov. Tony Evers. Meanwhile, state Rep.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 21: The Gulf War and the Battle For Michigan. As the U.S. continues to carry out an air campaign against Iran and attempts to wrest back control of the Strait of Hormuz, the war is already reshaping the future of Gulf Arab states that rely on the critical waterway, as well as the protection of U.S. military bases in the region.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 21: In Southern Lebanon, a Gloss of Diplomacy Can't Hide the Reality of Occupation. Much of Al-Mansouri lies in ruins, with the Israeli-occupied village of Majdal Zoun just across the valley. Despite the destruction and continued Israeli attacks, around 100 residents have chosen to remain. Al Mansouri, Lebanon. AL-MANSOURI, Lebanon—The road into Al-Mansouri winds through a shattered landscape.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 21: Gas Grab. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 ICYMI in The Lever : Freshly off the hook, the Winklevoss twins are returning the president’s favor . 👇 Further down in this newsletter: Whose pockets your gas money is lining. The data center showdown in the desert. A billion-dollar victory for human creators. STORIES TO GO In a hurry?

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "From this point forward, any time Iran shoots at a ship in the Strait of Hormuz, whether it be by Missile, Rocket, Drone, or any other device or weapon, the US will bomb and destroy ONE BRIDGE OR POWER PLANT, including those located next to, or in, the Capital City of Tehran."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Judd Legum wrote: On May 26, a healthcare executive received a letter from the FDA that created an existential legal crisis for his company — and his career. Days later, he sent $1 million to MAGA Inc. (1/2)

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Q: You argue that Iran violated the MOU. But isn't the MOU flawed since it explicitly acknowledges Iran has power in the Strait of Hormuz? MARCO RUBIO: That's certainly not the way we interpreted it

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.