Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Tuesday, July 14, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 14: Straight talk about Hormuz. Since the United States attacked Iran on February 28, 2026, Iran has closed — or severely restricted passage through — the Strait of Hormuz. As a result, the global supply of oil has been constrained, raising prices for U.S. consumers and others worldwide.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published July 13: Mitch McConnell Releases "Proof-of-Life" Pic. Blink twice, Mitch I’LL BE BACK, Mitch McConnell finally announced yesterday. Well, sort of. “As much as it frustrates me, this process takes time,” the 84-year-old senator wrote. The 600-word statement, expressing his intent to return to Congress at some undisclosed point, was his first since his (also undisclosed) hospitalization a month ago.

Alex: Aaron Rupar pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled Mitch McConnell's legacy of destruction.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 13: The New Israel-Backed Nonprofit Feeding Lawmakers Model Legislation. SLIC cofounder Michael Gottlieb, a Florida state legislator, and Sen. John Fetterman. Photo: Instagram. On June 2, politicians from around America, including Trump administration official Leo Terrell, met at the Israeli embassy in Washington, D.C. for a glitzy reception. The next day, they met Sen. John Fetterman (D–Pa.) in his office.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 13: “Get Lit” Livestream, 4:30 pm ET: A Most Devastating Chapter of Dostoyevsky's "Demons". Illustrated by Daniel Medina “We’ll extinguish desire: we’ll get drinking, gossip, denunciation going; we’ll get unheard-of depravity going; we’ll stifle every genius in infancy.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 13: U.S.-Iran war re-escalates; Israeli settlers detain Ro Khanna; UAW President says Gaza advocacy led to DOJ probe. From Drop Site: The Man Who Walked Toward the “Yellow Line” in Gaza—and the Son He Carried With Him Iran shuts down the Strait of Hormuz after hitting container ship. U.S. launches third wave of strikes on Iran; Tehran retaliates , hitting U.S. Gulf bases.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: The Woman in the Photo Wanted to Be Alone. Instead, She Went Viral.. America saw what it wanted to see on the face of its newest icon. And everyone saw it wrong.

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: Live updates: Man killed in Biddeford ICE-involved shooting ID’ed as 26-year-old from Colombia. Witnesses described seeing one person being shot in the head.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Live updates: ICE agents involved in deadly shooting in Biddeford. Witnesses described seeing one person being shot in the head.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: Our Colombian partner publication, Cerosetenta, has released the following statement after a court ruling on our story about alleged links between a political candidate and an international Neo-nazi group in Bogota ...

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: Firefighters announced on Tuesday that over 1900 hectares of forest had gone up in flames during the wildfires near Fontainebleau forest, South-East of Paris. This Sentinel-2 satellite image captured the extent of the fires on July 13.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "We drained the beautiful 'Reflecting Pool' today in order to fix the scars and damage that was done by the Vandals 2 weeks ago. We wanted to wait until after July 4. The slashes were 300 yards long, and the floor of the pool was cut and then pulled upward, with great force, by these thugs."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.