Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, August 08, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 07: Airlines Are Lobbying To Change Airfare Font Sizes. It's Gonna Cost You.. For decades, buying a plane ticket hasn’t been a simple process. In the late 2000s, consumers were inundated with ads for special $79 or $99 flights, but were met with sticker shock when they went to buy the tickets and saw the true cost was actually much higher.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 07: Is AI Snitching On Big Tech?. Can money buy an election? What’s FIFA up to since the World Cup? And who’s spying on you? The answers to these questions and many more can be found in LeverMind , our weekly news quiz testing your knowledge of the developments that really matter — and who needs to be held accountable. To score full access along with everything else The Lever has to offer, upgrade now .

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 07: The Ongoing Covid Coverup. Left, Wuhan Institute virologist Dr. Shi Zhengli; right, former EcHealth Alliance president Peter Daszak Yesterday, the Senate Homeland Security and Government Affairs Committee voted along party lines to hold Dr. Anthony Fauci in contempt of Congress , after the former NIAID head invoked his Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination rather than answer questions.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 07: AIPAC-Linked Super PACs, Pro-Israel Donors Flood Primary to Succeed Angie Craig With More Than $3 Million. Rep. Kaela Berg, Sen. Four super PACs with ties to AIPAC and Democratic Majority for Israel have surged into a Minnesota House race in the final months of the campaign, hoping to fend off the latest progressive insurgent.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Pro-Israel Pressure Group Honest Reporting Received Grant from Knight Foundation.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 07: Dozens reported killed in Ansarallah attacks; Saudi Arabia, Turkey, and Pakistan sign defense deal; Trump targets birthright citizenship. Friday, August 7, 2026 – Explosions heard near Qeshm. Iran deal on Hormuz with Oman nears. Iran parliament speaker Mohammed Baghar Ghalibaf slams U.S. President Donald Trump’s “theater diplomacy.” Tehran sent Gulf countries list of power plants that it could strike if U.S. attacked its infrastructure, report says.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 07: Links for Livestream, 3 pm ET: The Origins of COVID, Wrapping Up Fauci, and More. Matt Bivens and I will be doing a livestream today at 3:00 PM ET on a variety of issues related to Covid origins, the recent hearings with Dr. Anthony Fauci, recently released documents about the Wuhan Institute, and other recent developments in the world of medicine, including AI-generated viruses .

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 07: PopInfo Weekly: Fakes, falsehoods, and favors. Last week, Popular Information reported that a New York Post headline falsely claimed that “Thousands of 9/11 families demand Mamdani be banned from 25th-Anniversary.” But a Popular Information interview with the organizer of the petition revealed that this was false, and that there was not an actual list of family members who signed the petition.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Hassett's jobs report spin has to be seen to be believed. Hassett's smirking bullshit tour A supercut from Kevin Hassett's tragicomical media rounds this morning:

Sam: Bellingcat shared: Sudan’s Next Massacre: The RSF Advance That Could Repeat El Fasher | Photo Evidence. Bellingcat researcher spoke to 's Photo Evidence about our investigation locating a series of killings caught on camera in Al Fashir (El Fasher), Sudan last year. ...

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Home | Bellingcat Investigations. Receive our most prominent investigations by email as soon as they are published.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump crashes out about ballroom ruling: “This decision, made after much of the work has been done and paid for, is a National Security Threat at the highest level. It is also a National Disgrace”

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: “US Attorney Pirro should re-visit her hastily made decision, especially since it turned out that the ‘gentleman’ involved is a big player in ActBlue, a disgraceful fundraising SCAM, and is represented by a TRUMP DERANGED SLEAZEBAG, Political Hack Lawyer, Norm Eisen”

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: MS NOW: "Valdosta's Scott James Matheson and Tifton's Julie Smith, are crossing party lines to endorse Ossoff in his reelection bid. Because even though they're Republicans serving in counties that voted for Trump by double-digit margins, they say Ossoff has proven he will show up for his state."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.