Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, August 01, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 8 stories from outlets like Bellingcat, Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Bellingcat team at Bellingcat, published August 01: Welcome to Dubai: Kinahan Cartel’s Visas Revealed. This article is the result of a collaboration with The Sunday Times. You can find their corresponding piece here. The Kinahan cartel, led by Christy Kinahan (centre) and his sons Christopher Jr (left) and Daniel (right), controls one of the most powerful transnational crime groups in the world from the Emirates.

Sam: Bellingcat pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled Welcome to Dubai: Kinahan Cartel's Visas Revealed - bellingcat.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 31: The Return Of The Kingmakers. The final chapters of Master Plan: The Kingmakers are almost here. If you’ve been following Season 2, you know we’ve been tracing the decades-long campaign to build an all-powerful presidency. The remaining episodes of The Kingmakers complete that story.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 31: Trump’s Homeland Security Chief Turned Conflicts Of Interest Into Tax Breaks. As his agency rips apart immigrant families, slows labor growth , and delivers massive windfalls to questionable private operators , the new Homeland Security chief just used a legal loophole to score a lucrative tax break on the sale of millions of dollars of controversial investments he accrued while serving in Congress.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 31: Who’s Screening Your Luggage?. Which Democrats are pro-war? How many ways can Trump mess with our elections? And who is the middleman for ICE’s real-estate deals? The answers to these questions and many more can be found in LeverMind , our weekly news quiz testing your knowledge of the developments that really matter — and who needs to be held accountable.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 31: Gaza deal remains conditional on Israel; Earthquake-level explosions in Lebanon; 60,000 migrants cross from Morocco into Spanish territory. Friday, July 31, 2026 – U.S. resumes strikes on Iran. Iran hits U.S. bases in Jordan, Kuwait, and Bahrain. Over 4,000 children killed or injured in Iran war. Pakistan trying to broker more negotiations, Foreign Ministry says. Egypt, Iran respond to Wednesday attack on Egyptian port. Iraqi government denies it approved U.S.-Saudi strikes. U.S.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 31: Editor's Note: Fauci Stories Unlocked. Some readers reached out this week, saying they wished they could share articles like, “ After Fauci Debacle, Our Idiot Press Circles the Wagons .” That story is now unlocked, so you can send the link above and the story will be open.

Alex: Aaron Rupar pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled Fauci Derangement Syndrome.

Alex: Aaron Rupar pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled LIVE SOON: Why are Republicans suddenly banging on about Fauci?.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 31: The first eight years and the next eight years of Popular Information. “To write the truth as I see it; to defend the weak against the strong; to fight for justice; and to seek, as best I can, to bring healing perspectives to bear on the terrible hates and fears of mankind…” That is how investigative reporter I.F. Stone, who died in 1989, described his role as a journalist. Stone pursued these goals by publishing I.F.

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published July 31: The Pentagon’s New Missile Gap. From almost the beginning of the Iran war, the experts have complained that the Pentagon is running out of missiles, a supposed problem that says more about the nature of the national security debate than the state of the US military. Washington officials are stuck on this half-propaganda, half-operational conundrum.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Ken Klippenstein shared: How Francesca Hong deals with stupid questions.. Francesca Hong's hilarious way of dealing with stupid questions ...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "Ukraine has very rich, very fertile soil in terms of rare earth. We have a contract signed having to do with rare earth, we can go in there at any time we want to take pretty much whatever we want."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.