Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Thursday, August 06, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 06: As the Board of Peace Cosplays Diplomacy, Israel Once Again Ramps Up Killing in Gaza. Story by Abdel Qader Sabbah, Mohamed Ahmed, Sharif Abdel Kouddous, and Jawa Ahmad GAZA CITY—Ahmed Abu Al-Kas was sifting through the debris of an apartment in the Al-Sousi Tower in western Gaza City in the aftermath of a pre-dawn Israeli airstrike on Sunday that killed a pregnant woman, her husband, and their five-year-old son.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Abdul El-Sayed leads anti-war sweep in Michigan; Israel raids Qalandia refugee camp; Russian strikes kill 17 in Kyiv.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 06: Senate Republicans launch network of fake news sites. The Alaska Navigator bills itself as “independent news covering the Last Frontier.” On June 10, the outlet published an article headlined, “ As Fentanyl Deaths Rise in Alaska, Sullivan Pushes Tougher Penalties and Enforcement .” The piece, which has no byline, reports that Senator Dan Sullivan (R-AK) — who is locked in a competitive campaign against Democrat Mary Peltola — “is leading efforts to combat fentanyl trafficking and support law enforcement agencies confronting the epidemic.” Curiously, although Sullivan has been in the Senate for more than a decade, the piece cites only one piece of evidence: Sullivan’s vote for the HALT Fentanyl Act in March 2025.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 05: Trump’s Iran Oil Giveaway. Weeks after he launched his war with Iran, President Donald Trump began releasing millions of barrels of oil from the nation’s strategic reserve to combat skyrocketing gas prices.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published August 05: Chuck Schumer Eats Shit. Abdul El-Sayed Imagine if Donald Trump went all-in endorsing a candidate for the Senate, campaigned for them and helped raise eleven times as much money as their opponent — who then lost. There would be wall-to-wall media coverage declaring the end of Trump’s influence and of the Republican Party as we know it.

Alex: The Lever team at The Lever is on the same story, with a piece titled Midterm Madness: El-Sayed Wins, Overcomes $62 Million Corporate Spending Spree.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 05: UPDATE: CBS News reverses course, airs story on 9/11 families supporting Mamdani. Last week, CBS News New York falsely reported that “thousands of 9/11 victims’ families are asking New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani not to attend this year’s solemn remembrance ceremony.” The article appeared to be based on misinformation promoted by the New York Post.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Trump, Hegseth clashed at Camp David over Iran missile depletion concerns. At a Camp David summit this weekend, President Trump demanded answers from Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth over extreme munitions shortages.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump on Democrats: "They will overturn it if they take over. All of the things, including men in women's sports, transgender for everyone, they will overturn it if they get in. We can't let that happen."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: JD Vance: "The president makes the decisions, and we all try to implement the decisions in accordance with the president's wishes. The president runs this administration. He makes orders."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: KUDLOW: Why is it people don't know there's an economic boom? It's not showing up in any of these numbers! How is that possible? TUBERVILLE: Our economy is really good if you look at all the factors

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.