Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, July 24, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 24: PopInfo Weekly: Bankrolls, blackouts, and body cams. Since the start of 2025, 110 House members and 37 senators have sponsored or cosponsored 40 bills to expand the power of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE). Popular Information identified the corporate donors who have provided the most support to these politicians, which include SpaceX, Home Depot, Walmart, and Google.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published July 23: Exclusive: Francesca Hong Takes on National Security. Francesca Hong’s insurgent campaign for governor of Wisconsin (where I live) echoes Zohran Mamdani’s rise, but with a striking difference. She has something to say about national security. Hong, 37, is a state legislator and chef based in Madison, where she was born and raised.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 23: Prosecutor Investigating U.S. Boat Strikes and Claims of Torture Was Murdered in Ecuador. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 23: Asesinan A La Fiscal Que Investigaba Los Ataques Estadounidenses Contra Pescadores Ecuatorianos y Denuncias De Tortura. Escena del crimen del asesinato de la fiscal Alexandra Bravo y su hermana, Olinda Bravo. Foto proporcionada a Drop Site News por Radio Pichincha. To read this story in English, click here. QUITO, Ecuador—Alexandra Bravo, la fiscal encargada de investigar los ataques de EE. UU.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 23: The SNAP Subsidy. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 📹 First watch: One corporation controls 35 percent of all bowling revenues. 👀 Now read: Meet the kingpin behind private equity’s takeover of your local lanes. 👇 Further down in this newsletter: Which employers are relying on SNAP to subsidize wages. The AI influence war. An antitrust icon’s new job.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 23: Ansarallah strikes two Saudi tankers; Oil surges past $100; Over 4,200 Israeli settlers storm Al-Aqsa. Thursday, July 23, 2026 – U.S. targets Iran for 12th straight night. Iran launches retaliatory attacks. IRGC reports interceptions of tankers. Damaged tanker towed into Iranian waters. Iranian Parliament Speaker Mohammed Bagher Ghalibaf says there will be no oil sales in the Gulf until Iran’s security is assured.

Alex: And Judd Legum weighed in on Bluesky: 1. Trump just signed a landmark nuclear deal with Saudi Arabia, paving the way for the Saudis to enrich their own uranium.

Alex: Judd Legum at Popular Information also touches on this in their latest edition.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Tariff Man's new assault on Canada is his dumbest yet. The madman theory works ... right up until it doesn't anymore.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Squawk Box host Andrew Ross Sorkin lets Brooke Rollins get away with blaming high grocery costs on Biden. It's almost like there was an agreement before this interview to not ask any follow up questions. Fox News lite.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: two people were stabbed in NYC today by a man who reportedly yelled ‘allahu albar’ during the attacks. one victim was jewish. the other was asian. fortunately both are expected to survive. it’s telling how in much of the coverage, only one victim’s identity is important and “explains” what happened.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: Open source tools can help track every stage of a wildfire, from the first reports through to assessing the damage once the flames are out. Throughout July, the Copernicus Atmosphere Monitoring Service helped researchers monitor how wildfire smoke spread across Canada and the US.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.