Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Thursday, August 27, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 27: Do Rural Residents Have the Power to Say No?. This piece by Raj Patel, a research professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs and a member of the International Panel of Experts on Sustainable Food Systems, and Jim Goodman, a retired dairy farmer, looks at the way hyperscalers are approaching the construction of data centers in rural communities and the rights those communities have.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 27: "Get Lit" August 27, 2026: On Stephen Crane's “The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky,” and “The Blue Hotel”. Illustrated by Daniel Medina L ink Here: How to Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Automated transcripts can be found on the web browser or app version below the byline. Share the Free Episodes of Get Lit: Watch Get Lit on YouTube below:

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Matt Taibbi, titled *Live Now: “Get Lit” On Stephen Crane's “The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky,” and “The Blue Hotel”.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Matt Taibbi, titled “Get Lit” Livestream, 12:30 pm ET: On Stephen Crane's “The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky,” and “The Blue Hotel”.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 27: American Beef Is On The Chopping Block. Create a FREE account, or log in. Registered readers of The Lever get access to a limited number of free articles every month, breaking news alerts, and our Lever Daily newsletter. SIGN UP FREE Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. Already have an account? Sign in

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 27: U.S. sanctions UK’s Palestine Action as “terrorist group”; ICE agent released from Texas jail; Russia threatens to strike UK military targets in Ukraine. Thursday, August 27, 2026 – Israeli drone strikes wound Palestinians in Gaza City and Khan Younis. Israeli settlers expand outpost in occupied West Bank; five Palestinians wounded in Hebron and Jerusalem. UN: Israel has killed at least 100 Palestinians in Gaza in last two weeks. Haaretz: Israel cultivating network of armed militias across Gaza.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 27: UPDATE: Senate GOP’s fake news website falsely links Democrat to murder. On August 6, Popular Information exposed a network of fake news websites surreptitiously controlled by Senate Republicans. One of these sites is now being used to legitimize a specious attack against former North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper. The North Carolinian bills itself as “ Independent Journalism for North Carolina .” But the website is not independent.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 27: The Billionaire Building The Democrats’ New Machine. Create a FREE account, or log in. Registered readers of The Lever get access to a limited number of free articles every month, breaking news alerts, and our Lever Daily newsletter. SIGN UP FREE Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. Already have an account? Sign in

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Nutlick performs one of the most pathetic pressers of all time. Howard Lutnick just demonstrated why he's called Nutlick during one of the pathetically sycophantic press conferences of all time. Here's a supercut:

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Lutnick on demolishing the Kennedy Center: "The papers that went in were basically saying, 'If you don't renovate this building, if you just leave it be, that eventually is going to be the outcome'"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Q: Why not just put Trump's name on the building in two years after the renovation is done? Isn't that usually how it works? LUTNICK: Actually, that's not usually how it works. When you have the greatest philanthropist, you just need him to agree. He is the most credible person in the world.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Howard Lutnick says he sent texts to Rep. Joyce Beatty saying "c'mon, let's just sit down and talk" even after Beatty's lawyers contacted him and said Beatty didn't want to hear from him directly and only wanted to engage through lawyers

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.