Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, September 19, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 19: You Love To See It: The Kids Are AI-Right. Good things are happening! Big Tech gets schooled, civil rights report for duty, a fossil fuel revival hits the brakes, and The Lever sits down with a teen titan of First Amendment rights. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 18: This PR Populist Is Quiet About His Data Center Past. Joe Mitchell has worked as one of those insiders, earning nearly $100,000 consulting for a “data center PR agency.” Mitchell, a 29-year-old real estate developer worth as much as $21 million , is running for Iowa’s open 2nd Congressional District seat, which is being vacated by Rep. Ashley Hinson (R) as she runs for Senate.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 18: What’s A Little Macklemore?. Why are stadium owners angry? Is the Strait of Hormuz still blocked? And whose campaigns is Big Tech funding? The answers to these questions and many more can be found in LeverMind , our weekly news quiz testing your knowledge of the developments that really matter — and who needs to be held accountable. You have 30 seconds for each question.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 18: Saudi Aramco cuts oil shipments to Europe; Midterm voting begins; 16 killed in Pakistan mosque bombing. Friday, September 18, 2026 – Ansarallah leader claims U.S. is directly supporting Saudi Arabia, rejects accusations of striking Mecca. Fighting continues in Taiz as government forces claim 30 Ansarallah fighters killed. One killed, two wounded after Saudi intercepts drone over Taif. Over 112,000 displaced in Yemen.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 18: PopInfo Weekly: Clarity, Carney, and corruption. President Donald Trump amassed over $400 million through his super PAC, MAGA Inc. — the largest midterm war chest ever. Now, Trump has begun aggressively spending that money. Some ads inaccurately accuse Democratic candidates of supporting MAGA policies. Other ads, in an effort to find an effective attack, simply use false or fabricated claims.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Totalitarian art. The Hitler comparisons are sometimes overdone. But not here.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: "Finding Missing Records: Looking Into The Case of An Unnamed Victim"- with Bellingcat's Peter Barth | Podcast Episode on. This week Bellingcat's Peter Barth joined us to go behind the scenes of his latest investigation into a cold case murder. This talk specifically dove into his methodology for public record requests an...

Alex: Bellingcat shared: New Bellingcat investigation sheds light on civilian deaths in Mali’s drone war - The World from PRX. The military junta in Mali has increasingly relied on drones to fight against separatists and an al-Qaida-backed insurgency. While state-run media have hailed these “surgical strikes” on “terrorists,”...

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Kash Patel: "We will manhood you to the ends of the earth if you decide to fleece the American people and our elderly and our youth of the taxpayer dollars that should be going to them to help them in their lives"

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Markwayne Mullin: "The only way you can take a republic like the US or a democratic country and make it into a communist country is by single-handedly making chaos and then coming back in saying, 'Listen, it's not working ... we need a communist party to come in and take over.'"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: DHS Secretary Markwayne Mullin pushes the big lie on Fox News to no pushback: "The president was right when he said there was tremendous amount of fraud in the election. We continue to see that."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.