Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Tuesday, September 22, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 8 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 22: D.C. co-opts Troy Jackson campaign; Fierce clashes in Yemen as Saudi reopens pipeline; Paramount clears path for Warner Bros merger. Tuesday, September 22, 2026 – UK to refuel Saudi fighter jets during Yemen clashes. Ansarallah leader warns Turkey, Pakistan against supporting Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia restarts East-West oil pipeline after drone attacks. Saudi-led strikes kill 17 in Yemen as fighting continues. G7 foreign ministers demand Iran end arms support for Ansarallah.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Trump Hiding the Real Death Toll; Why the Saudi Military Can’t Fight; and AI’s Role in Killing Minab Children: The War Brief.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 22: Note on Trump and the First Amendment. A lot of people wrote in, both in comments and in my DMs, after yesterday’s article criticizing Donald Trump’s goofball policies with White House credentials. It’s true that no one has a right to a press pass. It’s also true that presidents deny passes all the time for political reasons.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 22: What AOC And Ro Khanna Would Do With Trump’s Power. In this premium bonus episode, we’re sharing our full interviews with Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (D-N.Y.) and Ro Khanna (D-Calif.). We ask AOC and Khanna the question at the heart of The Kingmakers ’ season finale: What should the next Democratic president do with all the power Donald Trump leaves behind?

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 22: The lie dominating Musk's 2026 political ads. President Donald Trump’s approval rating has plummeted . The Republican-controlled Congress, which reached “ new lows for productivity ,” is also historically unpopular.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 21: Trump is Wrong on Speech. Don’t Forget the Backstory. From the New York Times : CNN, MS NOW and Politico filed a legal challenge on Monday against President Trump’s order barring them from the White House grounds, the latest battle in a fight over journalistic independence instigated by the president.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 21: Israel Is Expanding and Upgrading Compounds for Palestinian Militias in Gaza. At least five Israeli-backed Palestinian militias are operating out of compounds in areas under Israeli military control across the Gaza Strip. Source: Forensic Architecture. At least five Israeli-backed Palestinian militias are operating out of compounds in areas under Israeli military control across the Gaza Strip, according to satellite imagery and videos published online.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 21: Leak: Full Metal Jackasses. Logan Paul and Jake Paul address the Pentagon Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive. Paul, the YouTuber-turned-failed-fighter, is emblematic of the influencer washouts with which the Trump administration is enamored.

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 21: Pakistan Tells Hospitals To Clear Bed Space For "Mass Casualty Incident" Ahead of Major Protest. Since you’re a reader of Drop Site News, you probably are aware that we are, more or less, the only Western news outlet that offers any serious investigative coverage of Pakistan’s authoritarian descent. We consider it scandalous that a nuclear-armed country of 250 million people receives so little attention. But we also have to be honest that we understand why that’s the case.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: Video Analysis Shows Two Waves of Bombings in Iran Elementary School Strike. A UN fact-finding mission has claimed that a Feb. 28 missile strike on the Shajareh Tayyebeh school in Minab, Iran, that killed more than 150 people likely constitutes a war crime. Bellingcat was the first to identify the weapon that hit the school as a US Tomahawk missile.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Ossoff: "The congressman voted to accelerate the insolvency of Social Security so that he could pass anothe tax break for his wealthy donors and corporate America. And so step one to strengthening Social Security is to repeal the Collins-Trump law."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Ossoff: "There's a reason so many prominent Rs refuse to support Collins. He's known as a man of poor character & low integrity. He absolutely is responsible for actions of his office. Here you have a record of one of his senior aides briefing some of the country's most notorious white supremacists"

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "The very same people who said we'll all be dead in 12 years because of global warming -- a name since reborn to climate change because the planet was cooling, not warming -- these are the same people that are now saying AI is going to kill us all, that robots are going to attack us."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.