Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Sunday, August 30, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 2 stories from outlets like The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 30: Lever Weekly: Surveillance, Swipe Fees, And Super PACs. This is Lever Weekly , a recap of our work from the past week. If you only read one email from us all week, this should be it. The Lever holds the powerful accountable through reader-supported investigative journalism that corporate media will not undertake. Join our mission , and you’ll get great perks in return.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 29: You Love To See It: The $17 Billion Unfollow. Good things are happening! Meta gets a very expensive timeout, regulators kill a killer weedkiller, big money gets the cold shoulder, and Trump’s trans-care crackdown gets blocked. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription. Click Here To Upgrade Meta Gets Grounded It’s been well established: social media is addictive.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Doug Ford: "It was something out of Saturday Night Live when he signed documents saying 'change it to Lake America.' No one is going to call it Lake America." (Google is calling is "Lake America" ... )

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: CASONE: Consumer confidence fell in August. Americans are worried about gas prices, what they're seeing at the grocery story, healthcare prices. TOM EMMER: What do you expect the public to feel when the left-wing media is telling American it's not good out there? It is!

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: CASONE: We surpassed $40 trillion in debt. In any way, shape, or form, is fiscal restraint going to be on the agenda for you and your colleagues? TOM EMMER: Uh, it has been. That will be priority number one when we get through the midterms.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.