Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Thursday, October 08, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 08: What Would An El-Sayed Win Mean For American Zionism?. To a certain set of pro-Israel Jewish Democrats, the problem with U.S. Senate nominee Abdul El-Sayed of Michigan isn’t merely that he campaigned with and refuses to fully disavow the far-left streamer Hasan Piker, who they accuse of being antisemitic.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 08: Ansarallah attacks Saudi airports; Russia kills 33 in Ukraine bus attack; Americans are financially worse off than a year ago. Thursday, October 8, 2026 – Palestine : Israeli artillery fire kills woman, wounds several in Gaza City. Israeli forces detain dozens of Palestinians as settler attacks continue across the occupied West Bank. Israeli authorities demolish Palestinian-owned shop in northern Israel. Israel returns body of Palestinian prisoner, continues to withhold 99 others.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published October 08: ICE-ing the midterms. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) agents stand guard in front of protesters outside Delaney Hall which is being used as an Immigration and Customs Enforcement detention center on May 27, 2026 in Newark, New Jersey. It is a new position that did not exist in previous administrations.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published October 08: The Speech That Gets You Banned From America. Marco Rubio speaking in front of the Acropolis today Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 07: Mike Rogers Invested In Rent Hikes. Now He’s Running For Senate.. As corporate landlords made a jackpot off soaring rents, Michigan Republican Senate candidate Mike Rogers bet on the biggest offender: He made a six-figure investment in a real estate conglomerate as it accelerated evictions and rent hikes.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 07: Midterm Madness: James Talarico’s $28,000 Oil Change. 🗳️ This is Midterm Madness , the only newsletter you need to stay up to date on election news. Key race updates, money trails, numbers that cut through the spin, and campaign moments that say more than official talking points ever will — from The Lever team to your inbox, every Wednesday. 👀 Watch: Sen. Susan Collins’ big “ Let them eat road salt ” moment.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Texas kills man in first US execution since botched lethal injection of Christa Pike. Jamaal Howard, 46, executed by fatal dose of pentobarbital after lawyers’ bid for stay had been denied

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: Congressional candidate is raped while repairing her campaign signs. Embarrassed, she initially didn’t want to report attack. Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office's investigation is ongoing.

Sam: Ken Klippenstein shared: Ohio man jailed for texting Shrek’s penis to a state senator. Your questions about Shrexting, answered.. An Ohio blogger spent 23 hours in jail after texting a senator a crude Shrek meme. Can political mockery be prosecuted? The First Amendment weighs in.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "First we honor an industrial titan, a brilliant engineer and one of the greatest technology founders to ever live. His name is Elon Musk ... few Americans in history have done more to advance America's national interest than Elon."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: How can researchers investigate hate online without amplifying it? Learn to recognise hate symbols and examine the narratives, networks and tactics that can fuel hate and division. Sign up for the online webinar on the 28th of October 2026. ...

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "The White House considers anyone that uses the term, 'Artificial Intelligence,' as opposed to the highly accepted new and more accurate term, 'Super Intelligence,' THE ENEMY! President DONALD J. TRUMP"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.