Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, August 26, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 8 stories from outlets like Bellingcat, Drop Site News, Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 26: Did Mamdani “doxx” wealthy New Yorkers?. “PIED-A-TERROR,” the New York Post cover blared on July 28.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 26: Imran Khan’s Health, Iran Under Sanctions. Pakistan’s imprisoned former prime minister Imran Khan was recently taken from prison to hospital for medical treatment amid reports of his failing health in custody, including continued loss of eyesight in his right eye. The fate of Khan, the country’s most popular politician, has held politics in limbo in the nuclear-armed country of 240 million for the past three years.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 25: Nevada Governor Backed Data Centers Days After $1 Million Donation. Three days after a prominent artificial intelligence investor and his wife donated $1 million to a political action committee boosting Nevada Republican Gov. Joe Lombardo’s reelection campaign, Lombardo publicly endorsed the state’s booming data-center buildout.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 25: “Get Lit” Livestream, 4:30 pm ET: On Stephen Crane's "The Open Boat". Illustrated by Daniel Medina Reminder that Brad Pearce and I will be back to discuss Stephen Crane’s “ The Open Boat ” this afternoon. Join us at 4:30 PM ET at: Substack Rumble YouTube You can also find us on X, @mtaibbi or @waywardrabbler . See you soon!

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 25: Karen Attiah and the Right to Suck. From the New York Times : A private arbitrator has ordered The Washington Post to rehire the opinion columnist Karen Attiah, who was fired in September over her social media posts about the assassination of the conservative activist Charlie Kirk. It also ordered the company to compensate her with back pay.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 25: Democrats Want A Break From Israel. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 ICYMI in The Lever : Private prisons are wading into our elections again. 🎧 Listen: How Obama waged his secret drone war . 👇 Further down in this newsletter: The issue that could decide the 2028 election. What stocks has the president been trading? A new era of sanctions. STORIES TO GO In a hurry?

Alex: Drop Site team at Drop Site News is on the same story, with a piece titled U.S. kills two in extrajudicial boat strike; 47 killed in Haiti gang raid; Israel seizes Jerusalem UNRWA center.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 25: Anti-billionaire tax ad falsely claims every Californian will have to “report all their assets”. In November, California voters will consider a one-time 5% tax on the assets of a few hundred of the state’s billionaires. The initiative, should it pass, is expected to generate tens of billions of dollars for health care and education programs. Opponents of the measure have a big problem: taxing billionaires is quite popular.

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Bellingcat team at Bellingcat, published August 25: Tracking a Sanctioned Russian Vessel’s West African Odyssey. Sign up here to receive Bellingcat’s biggest investigations by email as soon as they are published. A sanctioned vessel that was previously reported to have transported weapons destined for Russian mercenaries has been traversing ports on the west coast of Africa since March, exhibiting what experts told Bellingcat was an unusual set of movements and behaviours.

Alex: Bellingcat pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled Tracking a Sanctioned Russian Vessel’s West African Odyssey - bellingcat.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Sen. Darline Graham wins GOP nomination for U.S. Senate in South Carolina. In a major win for President Trump who went all in for the political newcomer, Sen. Darline Graham beat out longtime Congressman Ralph Norman in a special election primary runoff in South Carolina.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: The Warnings That Came Before a War Now Reaching the Six-Month Mark. After military and diplomatic efforts, President Trump is pinning his hopes on economic warfare.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Ossoff: "This will come up at debates. The congressman will have to defend his non-cooperation w/ a bipartisan federal investigation into illegal misuse of tax dollars by his office. The congressman will have to defend his office briefing some of the nation's most notorious white supremacists..."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: NEWSMAX: A new poll shows approval for the war with Iran has fallen to its lowest level at just 31%. Are you concerned about this hurting Republicans? REP. SCOTT PERRY: This isn't the president's fault. It's not America's fault. This is Iran's fault.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.