Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Thursday, July 23, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 23: A nuclear deal for the Saudis. A media blackout for Kushner’s corruption.. The Saudi government has been aggressively seeking such a deal for years , eager to gain an edge over regional rivals. The agreement lacks safeguards that previous administrations, and many independent foreign policy analysts, viewed as essential to prevent nuclear proliferation.

Sam: And Aaron Rupar weighed in on Bluesky: Trump: "The Civil Nuclear Deal (There will be no enrichment) being made between US & Saudi Arabia, which pertains only to non-military use such as ones that Iran and UAE already have, will be approved, but is totally subject to Saudi Arabia joining the very respected & successful Abraham Accords"

Sam: Drop Site team at Drop Site News is on the same story, with a piece titled Trump threatens Iran’s bridges and power plants over Hormuz; U.S. and Saudi agree to nuclear deal; RSF drone kills 21 in North Darfur.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published July 22: The “Greatest Threat” to America?. Hegseth testifying to Congress this week Pete Hegseth in his wisdom has identified “the greatest threat that our nation faces,” as he told Congress on Tuesday. It’s not nuclear weapons. Nor is it China. It’s not Iran, Russia, or North Korea. It’s not Cuba or any other country rising or falling. It’s not drugs. It’s not terrorism. It’s not Islam.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Ken Klippenstein, titled #1 Threat to America, According to Pentagon.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 22: Trump’s Consumer Watchdog Pick Worked For Companies Sued By The Agency. President Donald Trump ’s pick to take over the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , Brian Johnson, previously consulted for a litany of companies and industry groups sued for alleged consumer protection violations, including by the financial regulatory agency he’s now poised to lead, according to financial disclosures reviewed by The Lever .

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 22: Israel Firebombed a Family Home Where Children Were Sleeping in Latest Killing Spree. The Al-Masri family home in Gaza City after it was bombed by the Israeli military, killing a couple and their four children as they slept on July 21, 2026.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 22: Don't Let Activists or Robots Choose Your Words. The 2026 AP stylebook I just received in the mail checks in at nearly 500 pages, ten times as long as the 1951 edition , 200 pages longer than the 1977 guide . The meaning of “style” has expanded massively over the years.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 22: Midterm Madness: Defeat in the Desert. 🗳️ Welcome to Midterm Madness , the only newsletter you need to stay up to date on 2026 election news. Key race updates, money trails, numbers that cut through the spin, and campaign moments that say more than official talking points ever will — from The Lever team to your inbox, every Wednesday. The Lever ’s work is made possible by our readers.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 22: On Substack's New AI-Spotting Tool, and the Importance of Human Thought. Substack CEO Chris Best published an article yesterday called, “ Against Claudefishing ,” in which he announced a new site tool to help editors and users spot potential AI-generated text: We’re partnering with Pangram , the leading AI-detection tool.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Cynthia Lummis: "The struggle is a lot of Democrats are focused on one person, and that is President Trump. So since President Trump agreed that he would have the choice to either put his assets in a blind trust or divest of his participation in digital assets, somehow that's not enough."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Linda McMahon on good uses of AI in schools for students: "They spend the first couple of hours with AI and then the rest of the day they are implementing things they have learned. It's remarkable."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: On the SAVE America Act, Rep. Mike Collins says he's working hard to "get rid of drop boxes" and adds, "it's clear that even using a state driver's license for voter ID has been compromised"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.