Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Monday, August 10, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 2 stories from outlets like Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 10: These corporations are supporting an alleged domestic abuser for Congress. Congressman Max Miller (R-OH) leaves the U.S.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 09: Lever Weekly: It’s Gonna Cost You. This is Lever Weekly , a recap of our work from the past week. If you only read one email from us all week, this should be it. The Lever holds the powerful accountable through reader-supported investigative journalism that corporate media will not undertake. Join our mission , and you’ll get great perks in return.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: Investigative report traces global reach of 'revenge porn' website - The World from PRX. From a court case in the US to a family home in New Zealand, a cross-border investigation by Bellingcat and The Press, a daily newspaper in New Zealand, tracks down the alleged owner of a “revenge por...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: NEWSNATION: Here's the record -- inflation 3.5%, higher than earnings, gas is $4 a gallon, electricity prices continue to go up, and GDP is at 1.5%. Why do Republicans deserve to keep power? RNC CHAIR JOE GRUTERS: Biden's disastrous economic record

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: EMMER: Our enemy -- China -- is trying to stop us from beating them in the AI war by frustrating our ability to build data centers BARTIROMO: Yeah. It is an industrial revolution part 2 with the amount of jobs and build out from these data centers, and it's certainly helping the economy as well

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.