Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, July 18, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 17: Democrats Fail Because They Won’t Name The Villains. Freshly anointed Rising Democratic Star™ Sen. Elissa Slotkin (D-Mich.) has offered what she says is a coherent vision for the future. Read it carefully and see if you notice anything missing.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 17: U.S. bombs civilian infrastructure in Iran; Israeli attacks in Gaza at highest level since “ceasefire”; Rubio urges crackdown on “far-left terrorists”. U.S. escalates strikes on Iran. Iran widens its retaliatory attacks. Iran’s UN ambassador condemns U.S. attacks on civilian infrastructure as “war crimes.” Oil market burning through its emergency stocks, threatening wider shock. U.S. Vice President JD Vance responds to Drop Site’s reporting on Iran, Kushner, and Witkoff.

Alex: And Ken Klippenstein weighed in on Bluesky: Marco Rubio's speech on political terrorism references Luigi Mangione. "The share of left-wing terrorist attacks and plots has risen to levels not seen in decades ... a healthcare executive executed in cold blood in the streets."

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 17: Listen to This Article: Humans, Unite: The Reign of "AIdeology" is Here. The AI content hurricane is making landfall. Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 07/14/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts Read more

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 17: Maine’s Insider Primary Begins. After Graham Platner terminated his U.S. Senate candidacy, some have feared that big donors and/or the national Democratic Party machine could take over the replacement process. Newly released campaign finance data will not allay those concerns. Sign up for a paid subscription to The Lever now to gain access to this story and more.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 17: Recording Shows UAW Federal Monitor Pressured Union President Over Israel. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 17: Major Blockchain Firm Consensys Accidentally Hired a North Korean Hacker. Fort Worth-based blockchain firm Consensys, creator of the popular Ethereum-based MetaMask crypto wallet, accidentally hired a software developer linked to North Korea, according to internal messages obtained by Drop Site News.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 17: PopInfo Weekly: Donors, deception, and drones. Last week, the Trump administration published an obscure document — Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions — which details all of the proposed rules and rescissions under consideration by the administration. Buried in the tome was a massive new giveaway to corporate poultry processors, who rank among Trump’s largest political donors.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Mike Lindell, Trump’s pick for governor, isn’t registered to vote in Minnesota. Texas lists an active voter registration for the Republican businessman, who has drawn criticism for moving there and returning.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: ICE agents in plainclothes handcuff man at Las Vegas airport, shocking onlookers. After their actions attracted attention, the agents walked away, leaving Phu Nguyen with a handcuff attached to one arm. He was later arrested before his flight left Los Angeles International Airport

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Shapiro: "At the end of the day, what they really have is a bunch of conspiracy theories, and they're just trying to suck up to their boss and please him at a time where he is more and more unhinged and disconnected from reality."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: incredible -- more than two hours into this morning's Fox & Friends, "fraud" has not been mentioned a single time and hosts haven't discussed Trump's big primetime speech at all. They have 787 million reasons to ignore it.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.