Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, July 10, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 09: Livestream, Friday, July 10, 5:00 PM ET: Inside the Twitter Files. Dr. Matt Bivens , who joined me on a livestream about Russia a few weeks back, will be making time again tomorrow night, to talk about some never-discussed angles of the Twitter Files story. The initial story was reported by two teams of reporters, one associated with Bari Weiss, and a far smaller family affair in the Racket camp.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 09: Trump quiere los expedientes de los abogados sobre los niños migrantes.. Create a FREE account, or log in. Registered readers of The Lever get access to a limited number of free articles every month, breaking news alerts, and our Lever Daily newsletter. SIGN UP FREE Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. Already have an account? Sign in

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 09: Graham Platner and the Politics of Accusation. Maine Democrat Graham Platner last night ran a video address staunchly denying a recent flurry of sexual assault accusations, while still dropping out of the race for the U.S.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 09: “Get Lit" July 9, 2026: Dostoevsky’s Demons, Continued. Illustrated by Daniel Medina L ink Here: How to Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Automated transcripts can be found on the web browser or app version below the byline. Share the Free Episodes of Get Lit: Watch Get Lit on YouTube below: Read more

Alex: Marisa Kabas pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled Platner’s Daniel Moraff Barred from Summer Lee’s Campaign Over Sexual Misconduct Complaints.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 09: U.S. and Iran trade strikes; Platner drops out; 600 Ebola deaths in Congo. U.S. continues to bomb Iran. Iran launches retaliatory attacks. U.S. potentially preparing to strike Iran for weeks, Axios reports. Iran says slain Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei funeral proceeding despite U.S. attacks. Israeli forces demolish homes in Hadatha, bomb Houla in south Lebanon.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 09: RFK Jr., Scientology, and the war on antidepressants. Secretary of Health and Human Services Robert F. Kennedy, Jr. The effort has been led by Health Secretary Robert F. Kennedy Jr., who has spent years spreading misinformation about these types of medications. The Trump administration has specifically targeted selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), which include medications like Prozac, Lexapro, and Zoloft .

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 09: Corporate Dems Are Weaponizing Graham Platner’s Demise. On Monday, Politico published the account of a woman who says Maine Senate Democratic nominee Graham Platner sexually assaulted her. Platner has denied the allegations. In the days since, major Democratic figures have rescinded their endorsements of Platner.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: A sentient collection of red flags. Graham Platner's campaign should never have gotten this far.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: The Red Flag That Led to Graham Platner’s Implosion Was Hiding in Plain Sight. Maine’s populist Senate candidate made a costly miscalculation when he doubled down on his troubled background.

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: Texas ICE Killing Darkens: Rep Says Witnesses Pressured to Self-Deport. There were three others in the van with the man shot by ICE in Houston this week. A representative for the families tells TNR that the government is pressuring these potential witnesses to self-deport...

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Gruters: "We saw what happens when Dems can control, like the shutdown. They're gonna have investigations, they're gonna impeach, it's gonna be chaos. Trump Derangement Syndrome is real, America Derangement Syndrome is real. We need everybody to go to GOP dot com and give us your time and treasure."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: The chair of the Maine Democratic Party said on last night that each day that passes where Platner doesn't drop out makes it harder for them to execute a good and fair plan to replace him. What a fucking asshole.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.