Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Sunday, October 04, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 4 stories from outlets like Racket News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 04: Lever Weekly: Forever Chemicals, Never Trumpers, Always Wall Street. Create a FREE account, or log in. Registered readers of The Lever get access to a limited number of free articles every month, breaking news alerts, and our Lever Daily newsletter. SIGN UP FREE Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. Already have an account? Sign in

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published October 03: Listen to This Article: Writing is Good (He Said Controversially). Having dispensed with marriage, the New York Times enlists a professor to denigrate writing Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 09/30/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts Read more

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 03: The Bulwark Now Wants You To Forget 2024. After my essay and live chat on how the former GOP operatives behind The Bulwark are trying to steer Democrats’ agenda, the news outlet has been scrambling to try to fortify its reputation as experts in winning elections, knowing that is their fraudulent-but-unique selling proposition to liberals.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 03: You Love To See It: Dolly’s Next Chapter. Good things are happening! Watchdogs clean up dirty justice, Dolly’s greatest hits keep rolling, states kick the vape habit, and a prediction market gamble goes belly up. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: BREAM: DOJ plans to send 1k monitors to polls. Sen. Baldwin says 'our democracy depends on ppl being able to have their voices heard, but that's at risk as Trump weighs sending in armed agents.' How do you answer? BLANCHE: She should be saying 'thank God. Thank God we have a govt ready to show up'

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Hassett gets his ass kicked by Tapper Hassett's efforts to insist Trump's economy is the greatest ever and POTUS has never failed to deliver on his promises did not go well on CNN, as Tapper brought receipts to back up the feeling the majority of Americans have about how hard it is to get by

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump: "These Rallies are the hottest things out there, tremendous love in those sold out arenas, and nothing shows up on Fox! Also, phenomenal ratings for those that properly report. Who makes these decisions at FoxNews? Probably the same loser that fired the great Maria Bartiromo"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.