Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, September 25, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 25: Iran pushes 7-day plan to end war; Saudi calls on regional pact for defense; Argentina’s poverty rate climbs to over 32%. Friday, September 25, 2026 – Iran pushes seven-day plan to end U.S. war in meetings with Qatari, Pakistani mediators. Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian says Tehran open to nuclear verification, agreement with U.S. Iran warns “flights for everyone or no one” as UAE, Iraq enforce U.S. aviation sanctions.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 25: Live Free Speech Discussion, 2:00 PM ET Today: Interview With Russian Journalist Dimitri Simes. Racket readers should recall an interview published in this space in March with Dimitri Simes, a prominent Russian journalist who in August of 2024 became inveigled in one of the strangest and most disturbing speech cases of our times. While he and wife Anastasia Rurikova Simes were away, the FBI raided his Virginia home, seizing all his possessions but one.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Matt Taibbi, titled Listen to This Article: Trump is Wrong on Speech. Don’t Forget the Backstory.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 25: PopInfo Weekly: Stocks, smears, and settlements. MAGA Inc., President Trump’s super PAC, has spent nearly $2.5 million on ads attacking Democrats for making stock trades while in Congress and in some instances failing to disclose the trades on time. What the ads don’t mention is that Trump himself has traded more securities since returning to office than all members of Congress combined (and often reported them late).

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 25: AI Regulation Was Coming. Then Trump Killed It.. The investigation below raises a disturbing question: What if rogue AI agents are learning from the secrecy and rule-breaking of the humans who created them? Two years before this month’s nationwide panic over the apocalyptic potential of artificial intelligence, a first wave of Silicon Valley resignations began — and so did the omens of human extinction.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 25: The Machines Escaped. Their Masters Did So First.. “Misalignment.” In the wake of artificial intelligence hacks, break-ins, and mini-disasters, that’s what technologists call the terrifying gap between what we want AI to do and what AI is actually doing. But much of what we are seeing is better described as AI’s accelerated super-alignment with the mundane behaviors of its Silicon Valley creators.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 24: What’s Hiding In The Paramount Merger Settlement. LISTEN NOW: California Attorney General Rob Bonta and 11 other Democratic attorneys general just settled their lawsuit blocking Paramount Skydance’s $111 billion acquisition of Warner Bros. Discovery.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from The Lever team, titled The Ellisons Have Made This Movie Before.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: There’s one guy to blame for Americans’ economic discontent. "Just weeks out from midterms that are shaping up to be a bloodbath for Republicans, Trump and his minions are resorting to blaming Biden every opportunity for the fact Americans are deeply dissatisfied with the economy.

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: I saw the documentary the Israeli government doesn’t want you to see. 'NAZA' dispels once and for all the myth that the IDF didn't target civilians in Gaza.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Q: On affordability, Republicans have been in control for a couple years, and Americans are not seeing prices come down. What argument can you make that we should continue on this course? MIKE COLLINS: Sure, gas is too high. But also know that we got here because of Bidenomics

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Q: Mr President, did you call on President Xi to stop buying oil from Iran? TRUMP: ... Q: What about guardrails on AI? TRUMP: ... Q: Why are you banning media outlets? TRUMP: ... Q: Should US taxpayers pay for ads about you? TRUMP: *walks away*

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Enten: "President Trump has the highest strongly disapprove rating going into a midterm election on record. 50% of Americans now say that they strongly disapprove of the job he's doing. The previous record was Trump going into 2018 ... just 18% strongly approve of the job Trump is doing."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.