Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, September 18, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 8 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 18: Saudi Aramco cuts oil shipments to Europe; Midterm voting begins; 16 killed in Pakistan mosque bombing. Friday, September 18, 2026 – Ansarallah leader claims U.S. is directly supporting Saudi Arabia, rejects accusations of striking Mecca. Fighting continues in Taiz as government forces claim 30 Ansarallah fighters killed. One killed, two wounded after Saudi intercepts drone over Taif. Over 112,000 displaced in Yemen.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 18: PopInfo Weekly: Clarity, Carney, and corruption. President Donald Trump amassed over $400 million through his super PAC, MAGA Inc. — the largest midterm war chest ever. Now, Trump has begun aggressively spending that money. Some ads inaccurately accuse Democratic candidates of supporting MAGA policies. Other ads, in an effort to find an effective attack, simply use false or fabricated claims.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 18: The Quiet Corruption Behind Washington’s AI Inaction. Political corruption is often perceived as transactional: Cash flows to a politician, who then proactively does something for a donor. But there is an equally pervasive kind of corruption that’s more difficult to see, because it isn’t necessarily in campaign finance reports that document the exchange of money.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 17: Many of the “Michigan Jewish Dems” Backing Mike Rogers Are Actually Already Republican Supporters, Analysis Finds. Story by Tom Perkins Over 400 alleged Michigan Jewish Democratic and independent voters signed a pledge in late August to vote for Republican U.S. Senate candidate Mike Rogers, igniting a controversy and generating questions about whether Democratic nominee Abdul El-Sayed was losing critical support among a group that typically votes blue by about a 2:1 ratio.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 17: What Tech Oligarchs Gain From AI Doomerism. Create a FREE account, or log in. Registered readers of The Lever get access to a limited number of free articles every month, breaking news alerts, and our Lever Daily newsletter. SIGN UP FREE Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. Already have an account? Sign in

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 17: The Curious Data Center “Gift” Haunting Ken Paxton’s AI Crackdown. As he campaigns across the Lone Star State, Republican Senate candidate Ken Paxton has seized upon Texans’ growing concern with artificial intelligence and adopted a hard-line stance, promising to crack down on rogue chatbots and rein in AI data centers’ tax breaks. His new “Texas First” AI plan calls for consumer electricity price protections, among other measures.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 17: “Get Lit” September 17, 2026: Concluding “As I Lay Dying.”. Illustrated by Daniel Medina L ink Here: How to Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Automated transcripts can be found on the web browser or app version below the byline. Share the Free Episodes of Get Lit: Watch Get Lit on YouTube below: Read more

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 17: The Mitch Is Back. McConnell (R-KY) attends a Senate Agriculture Committee meeting on September 16, 2026 Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive. Now God is responding in kind, casting McConnell as the villain in a sad sequel to The Mummy .

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Totalitarian art. The Hitler comparisons are sometimes overdone. But not here.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: New Bellingcat investigation sheds light on civilian deaths in Mali’s drone war - The World from PRX. The military junta in Mali has increasingly relied on drones to fight against separatists and an al-Qaida-backed insurgency. While state-run media have hailed these “surgical strikes” on “terrorists,”...

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Dr Oz and kooky Fox Business host Taylor Riggs push vaccine skepticism: "We were told in April 2020 that if you got hit by a car but you also happened to have covid, they considered that a covid death. With the measles outbreak in Pennsylvania, are you dying with measles or from measles?"

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Gina Hinojosa: "While we've been fighting over culture wars ... 15 billionaires have amassed money, power, and all our data and are about to blow up the world. And if we don't come together fast to save ourselves -- this is it"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Gina Hinojosa: "The fight of 2026 is to decide is this going to be a Texas and America that is by and for the people, or is this the billionaires' world and we just live here. That's the fight."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.