Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, July 17, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 8 stories from outlets like Bellingcat, Drop Site News, Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 17: PopInfo Weekly: Donors, deception, and drones. Last week, the Trump administration published an obscure document — Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions — which details all of the proposed rules and rescissions under consideration by the administration. Buried in the tome was a massive new giveaway to corporate poultry processors, who rank among Trump’s largest political donors.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 16: A World Turned Upside Down: Syria Reckons with an Assad-Era Peacemaker. The fall of the Syrian government to a coalition of rebel groups led by Hayat Tahrir al-Sham in December 2024 put an end to several decades of rule by the Assad family, as well as a fourteen-year civil war estimated to have killed more than half a million people.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 16: We’re Still Living In The 2016 Election. LISTEN NOW: Ten years ago this week, Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) ended his first presidential run and endorsed Hillary Clinton. Now, his chief strategist says the primary process was rigged. Today on Lever Time , David Sirota sits down with Tad Devine, longtime political consultant and chief strategist for Sanders’ 2016 presidential campaign.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 16: Anatomy of a Struggle Session. The exchange below is not an interview, but a struggle session. Interviews are about eliciting information. The interrogation of California congressman and likely presidential candidate Ro Khanna by Ryan Grim, Maysa Mustafa, and Jeremy Scahill of Drop Site News was not. It was a histrionic, emotional political performance dressed up as an interview.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 16: Paramount’s Plot Twist. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 👀 Watch now: Trump’s Iran war is breaking the law . Will lawmakers do anything about it? 👇 Further down in this newsletter: A plot twist in the Trumpification of Hollywood. What industries are behind permanent daylight saving time? A first-of-its-kind show of labor solidarity. STORIES TO GO In a hurry?

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 16: Ansarallah Vows to Block Saudi Access to Bab al-Mandab After Strikes on Sana’a. A leading official from Yemen’s Ansarallah vowed that the group would block Saudi access to the Bab al-Mandab strait—a vital bottleneck connecting the Red Sea to the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean—in response to strikes on Sana’a airport on Monday that were blamed on Saudi Arabia.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Bellingcat team at Bellingcat, published July 16: Identifying the Crypto Entrepreneur Linked to Popular Forum Trading in ‘Leaked’ Nudes of Women. This investigation is a collaboration between Bellingcat and New Zealand news site The Press. You can read The Press’ piece here . Content warning: This article discusses non-consensual sexually explicit content and child sexual abuse material.

Sam: Bellingcat pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled The Crypto Entrepreneur Linked to a Forum Trading in ‘Leaked’ Nudes.

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 16: U.S. and Iran trade strikes for 5th day; 103 House Democrats vote to end Israel aid; Over 200 dead in Congo massacres. From Drop Site: Iran Sent Message to JD Vance Warning that Kushner and Witkoff Were “Abusing” Their Inside Access to Negotiations U.S. hits Iran with fifth day of renewed attacks. Iran responds , hitting U.S. bases in the Gulf. Iran calls Hormuz its “red line.” Pricey U.S. drone shot down . Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi goes to Doha.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Shapiro: "At the end of the day, what they really have is a bunch of conspiracy theories, and they're just trying to suck up to their boss and please him at a time where he is more and more unhinged and disconnected from reality."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: incredible -- more than two hours into this morning's Fox & Friends, "fraud" has not been mentioned a single time and hosts haven't discussed Trump's big primetime speech at all. They have 787 million reasons to ignore it.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: US Chief of Protocol Monica Crowley: "First things first, a huge thank you to President Trump, who in his first term heroically brought the 2026 World Cup to the United States. He did not anticipate being president and presiding over this, but God works in all kinds of ways."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.