Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Monday, August 03, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 4 stories from outlets like Popular Information, Racket News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 03: UPDATE: After the Mamdani 9/11 smear, a cover-up. As Popular Information first reported last week, a New York Post headline falsely declared on its July 26 cover: “Thousands of 9/11 families demand Mamdani be banned from 25th-Anniversary.” Reporter Rich Calder reported in the New York Post print edition, which has a circulation of about 120,000, that the petition “has collected 3,515 signatures in a little over a week, most from victims’ family members.” This was false, according to the version of the story that was posted online.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 02: Listen to This Article: After Fauci Debacle, Our Idiot Press Circles the Wagons. I guess it’s true: you can’t hate the news media enough. Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 07/30/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts Read more

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 02: Haley Stevens’ New Campaign Ad Features Anti-LGBTQ Pastor. With just days left before the Democratic primary election in the closely watched Michigan Senate race, Senate hopeful Rep. Haley Stevens released an eleventh-hour campaign advertisement featuring a pastor with a history of delivering anti-LGBTQ sermons and sharing Islamophobic posts on social media.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 02: Lever Weekly: Location, Location, Deportation. Create a FREE account, or log in. Registered readers of The Lever get access to a limited number of free articles every month, breaking news alerts, and our Lever Daily newsletter. SIGN UP FREE Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. Already have an account? Sign in

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Hassett: "After World War 2, bc we had centralized production to defeat the Nazis, there were a whole bunch of socialists in the UK and US that wanted to take over the economy bc they said, 'Look, we've already centralized production, so let's just be socialist.' That's why the CEA was created ... "

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: senator bernie moreno finally makes a statement about the allegations of abuse by rep. max miller against his daughter and granddaughter after miller went live on X this morning to deny everything.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: BRENNAN: Should there be an ethics probe to look into Max Miller? REP. MIKE TURNER: This is a matter of litigation. This is best handled in a courtroom, not a TV studio. This type of speculation is better for TMZ than CBS B: So it doesn't matter to you? TURNER: The court needs to handle this

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.