Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Thursday, October 01, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Bellingcat, Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published October 01: Listen to This Article: Marriage is Wonderful (He Said Controversially). The New York Times semi-retracts a 2015 celebration of marriage Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 09/28/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts Read more

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Matt Taibbi, titled Writing is Good (He Said Controversially).

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 01: DOGE’s Data Lockdown. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 New in The Lever : The president just initiated “the end of independent financial regulators.” 🎧 Listen : Why won’t Congress stand up to the White House? 👇 Further down in this newsletter: The data DOGE doesn’t want to give up. A rising Democratic star’s Wall Street bona fides. STORIES TO GO In a hurry?

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 01: Israel kills another Palestinian journalist; Bolivian attorney general detained; Entire newsroom arrested in Egypt. Thursday, October 1, 2026 – Iran : Iranian President says Tehran will pursue U.S. dialogue. Tehran rejects report U.S. ordered its UN delegation to leave New York. UK says there are “strong indications” Iran played role in RAF Fairford incident. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps claims six militants killed in southeastern Iran.

Sam: Marisa Kabas pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled How Israeli Checkpoints Choke Palestinian Life in the Occupied West Bank.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Bellingcat team at Bellingcat, published October 01: Viral Google Maps Images Shared Widely This Week Show Gaza Ruins. We Obtained More Recent Satellite Imagery. Earlier this week, several viral social media posts and news articles stated that Google had updated satellite imagery over Gaza. The imagery shared in these posts and articles shows several areas, including the southern city of Rafah. Huge destruction is detailed in the images, including what appears to be entire neighbourhoods flattened But the imagery wasn’t entirely new.

Alex: Bellingcat pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled Viral Google Maps Images Shared Widely This Week Show Gaza Ruins. We Obtained More Recent Satellite Imagery - bellingcat.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published October 01: WATCH: GOP super PAC quietly launches outlandish smear against Talarico. Senate in Texas, on trans issues. Since September 6, Talarico’s opponents have spent an astonishing $37 million on these trans attacks.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 01: Trump’s SEC Can Now Rewrite Wall Street’s Rules With A Single Vote. President Donald Trump’s top financial regulator just quietly passed a rule making it easier for a single president-appointed commissioner to unilaterally pass, alter, or repeal federal financial regulations.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 30: Trump’s Finger Gets Closer to Nuclear Button. Nuclear capable B-21 stealth bomber Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive. Unless you’re a member of the nuclear priesthood, this is probably the first you’re hearing about it.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Scenes from a personality cult. Trump’s taxpayer-funded agitprop is clearly illegal — and that’s the point.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Read TIME’s ‘What Trump Has Built’ Interview Transcript. The U.S. President discussed the war in Iran, press freedom, AI, and more ahead of the midterm elections.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Husted responds to polling showing a majority of Ohioans are concerned he's too close to Trump by kissing Trump's ass: "Donald Trump is fighting for lower prices. He's fighting for a stronger economy."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: Join us live later today for a discussion on AI use in investigations, with a focus on research into sophisticated scam networks. There’ll be time for audience Q&A, too. What questions would you like our speaker, , to explore? discord.gg/bellingcat?e...

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.