Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, July 11, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 4 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 11: PopInfo Weekly: Predictions, prescriptions, and payouts. After CNN and CNBC struck landmark deals with Kalshi in December, both networks have extensively promoted the prediction market to viewers. But the financial relationship between the networks and Kalshi is disclosed inconsistently.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 10: In Letter, Platner Volunteer Network Warns Dems: Nominee Must Back Same Agenda to Win Our Full Support. Crowd waits for Platner to speak at anti-ICE Rally in Lewiston. Photo: Nathan Bernard The 15,000 member volunteer network behind Graham Platner is now using its considerable leverage to push whoever replaces him as the Democratic Senate nominee to be aligned with the same policy platform that drove the largest primary turnout in Maine state history.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 10: Reminder: New Twitter Files Livestream Tonight at 5:00 PM ET. Reminder that Dr. Matt Bivens and I will be doing a livestream at 5:00 PM tonight , going over early Twitter Files material. Matt was in the room with the handful of people given access to the first documents, and upon review, we’re finding a lot of eyebrow-raising material that should have been published a lot earlier. We’re going to go through some of that stuff this evening.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 10: Khamenei is buried; Hormuz grinds to a halt; What we know about the Platner replacement process. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu says Iran war is “not over.” Gulf Cooperation Council condemns attacks on tankers in Strait of Hormuz, holds Iran responsible. Shipping grinds to a halt in the Strait of Hormuz. Assassinated Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei buried in Mashhad. Seafarers sue Thai shipping firm over Strait of Hormuz attack.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: LIVE SOON: Trump's tantrum, Platner's implosion, McConnell's non-legacy. Going live with at 2pm Eastern to talk about Trump's throwing a tantrum at the NATO summit and nobody really seeming to care anymore, lessons learned from Graham Platner's implosion, the bizarre non-legacy of Mitch McConnell, and we'll also take questions. Tune in!

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: Platner’s Daniel Moraff Barred from Summer Lee’s Campaign Over Sexual Misconduct Complaints. Congresswoman Summer Lee barred Platner's strategist Daniel Moraff from her campaign after receiving sexual harassment complaints against him.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump started a war with Iran and assassinated their leaders. The US government had been bombing the country for months and killing civilians. There’s no moral high ground here despite Trump’s preemptive effort to cast himself as a victim.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: This is total insanity. Words fail to explain how anyone let alone a plurality of voters thought giving an obviously demented person control of the most powerful government in the world was a good idea. We will be lucky to come out the other side of this alive.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Rep. Sylvia Garcia: "Apparently ICE has learned nothing. If they really think a car is gonna hurt somebody, even a kid would tell you you shoot the tires, you don't shoot the driver."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.