Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Monday, July 13, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 3 stories from outlets like Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 13: Listen to This Article: Graham Platner and the Politics of Accusation. A candidate in Maine drops out, and hypocrisies abound. Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 07/09/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts Read more

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 13: Massive giveaway to Trump donors buried in obscure government document. Last week, the Trump administration published the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulatory and Deregulatory Actions . The purpose of the Unified Agenda is to detail all of the proposed rules and rescissions under consideration by the current administration.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published July 12: Lindsey Graham's Death and Iran. RIP Senator Lindsey Graham died last night at age 71, ending a three-decade career as a member of Congress that started in 1995. Washington is shocked. But 71 is roughly the life expectancy for a man in South Carolina, the state he represented.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Lindsey Graham and the rot of modern conservatism. From Gingrich to Trump, Graham was a fixture as the GOP became increasingly malignant.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Inside Lindsey Graham's final push for Saudi-Israel peace. Graham saw Saudi-Israel normalization as the defining prize of a broader postwar settlement.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: beyond parody -- Fox & Friends hosts are trying to get Trump to pay tribute to Lindsey Graham, but they can't get a word in as Trump rants and raves about the SAVE America Act and the purportedly rigged elections in California

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.