Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, September 09, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 09: Iran and U.S. renew Hormuz attacks; Trump escalates Canada trade war; 13 killed in Sudan drone strike. Wednesday, September 9, 2026 – Iran launches massive missile barrage against U.S. targets. Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps sets conditions for ending U.S. war, announces new restricted maritime zone. U.S. Central Command claims five Iranian oil tankers destroyed; Iran warns tankers in Kuwaiti and Bahraini ports. UKMTO: Several ships disabled in attacks across Gulf.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 09: Trump’s 9/11 fantasies. Trump is marking the occasion by describing his role in heroic terms, claiming he personally went to Ground Zero to aid recovery efforts. On September 6, Trump made the following remarks on Fox News: And I went down. I was building a building in New York, and I had a lot of construction workers.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 08: U.S. Finds A War It’s Willing to Declare. Official seal of DHS — until now Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 08: Trump's Fed Chief Missed The AI-flation Memo. Trump’s new head of monetary policy, Federal Reserve Chair Kevin Warsh, recently announced the U.S.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 08: Newsom Wants An Economic “Reset.” His Record Says Different. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 New in The Lever : A Senate front-runner oversaw product safety for a medical device that caused women “ life-altering harm .” 👀 Watch : Even conservatives realize that Democrats are out of touch with their voters. 👇 Further down in this newsletter: A 2028 hopeful dips his toe in the Deep South.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 08: Nearly 20,000 displaced in Yemen as Saudi-Ansarallah conflict intensifies; UK bans Israeli settlement goods; Cuba talks end over U.S. blockade. Tuesday, September 8, 2026 – Russia, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and China push for renewed U.S.-Iran diplomacy; Tehran demands return to MOU. Iran hikes gas prices for heaviest consumers. Amnesty: U.S.-Israeli attacks on Tehran in March may amount to war crimes.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Grief Is Not a Verdict: This Is Not Really an Essay About Gloria Steinem. We grieve the worlds we’ve known and what it felt like to live in them.

Alex: Ken Klippenstein shared: Homeland Security's Creepy New Logo. Visual breakdown re Homeland Security's creepy new logo: ...

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: it speaks volumes the allegedly manly sports-loving political party is so oblivious to broader American culture that they booked their convention directly against the first two games of the NFL season, both of which will be watched by tens of millions of people

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Jeanine Pirro puts on her clown suit Pirro just held a presser to warn Americans about cryptocurrency fraud - never mind that her boss is one of the world's foremost crypto scammers - then had a series of performative meltdowns as reporters tried to ask her about the reflecting pool Supercut:

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Pirro: "If you know somebody that thinks they've got an opportunity that's too good to be true. They've been contacted by someone who has got the in on cryptocurrency -- bc none of us really understand cryptocurrency as much as we'd like to -- you've gotta tell them to stop ... do not send a penny."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.