Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, August 05, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 05: UPDATE: CBS News reverses course, airs story on 9/11 families supporting Mamdani. Last week, CBS News New York falsely reported that “thousands of 9/11 victims’ families are asking New York City Mayor Zohran Mamdani not to attend this year’s solemn remembrance ceremony.” The article appeared to be based on misinformation promoted by the New York Post.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 04: "For Your Eyes Only": Israel’s Mole Inside the United Nations. On February 20, 2015, an official of the United Nations Population Fund sent two Israeli diplomats an email containing a confidential report about a trip two weeks earlier to Washington, D.C. by Zeid Ra’ad Al-Hussein, then the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights. “For your eyes only.

Alex: And Bellingcat weighed in on Bluesky: New Sentinel-2 satellite imagery reveals the extent of damage caused by large scale Israeli detonations overnight on July 30 into July 31st around UNESCO World Heritage site Beaufort Castle in Lebanon.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 04: Democrats’ Corporate Corruption Divide. Over the last half century, conservatives have executed a master plan that legalized corruption and bribery, transforming elections into auctions. The political question now is: Do voters see endemic corruption merely as an esoteric abstraction? Or do they see corruption as the central driver of their economic problems?

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 04: The Gaza “Ceasefire” Farce and the Battle for Michigan. Last week, Hamas and President Donald Trump’s so-called Board of Peace announced they had formally agreed to terms addressing the weapons held by the Palestinian resistance.

Alex: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled U.S. crowdsources ideas on Iran; Gaza holds mass funeral for 112 killed in 2023; Board of Peace contradicts itself.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 04: “Get Lit” Livestream, 4:30 pm ET: The Finale of Dostoevsky's “Demons” (Part 1). Thank you , , , , , and many others for tuning into my live video with ! Join me for my next live video in the app. Get more from Matt Taibbi in the Substack app Available for iOS and Android Get the app

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 04: Listen to This Article: The Fauci Legend Will Not Die!. The ferocity of the Covid coverup is a thing to behold. Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 07/30/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts Read more

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 04: Flock’s Surveillance Nation. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 ICYMI in The Lever : Democrats’ middle lane is collapsing . 🎧 Listen: Have you read Barack Obama’s kill list ? 👇 Further down in this newsletter: Is Flock watching you? FIFA and Josh Kushner’s red card. How does Trump keep winning? STORIES TO GO In a hurry? These are the biggest stories in the country today.

Sam: Judd Legum at Popular Information also touches on this in their latest edition.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Jeanine Pirro crashes into the limit of Trump's lies. It's one thing to bullshit on Fox. It's another to lie in court.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Max Miller’s lawyer admits to accidentally releasing ‘private images’ of daughter. Lawyers for ex-wife Emily Moreno said possible “Child Sexual Abuse Material” was included in a trove of documents the Ohio lawmaker publicly posted.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Cartel member found playing Padel. How did we find Ian Dixon, a wanted member of the Kinahan cartel, on a padel court in Dubai? Search Party recounts how Bellingcat and traced the digital trail that led to the alleged money handler for one of the world's most dangerous crime cartels. ...

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Sen. Cynthia Lummis says on her crypto bill that "the president agreed to an ethics provision that no president has ever agreed to. He's gone further to protect ethics than any president in history, yet the Democrats want more."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.