Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, August 22, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 3 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 21: Are Democrats Having A Tea Party Moment?. Who’s leeching off small businesses? Where is Big Tech getting all its data? And Liberation Day for whom? The answers to these questions and many more can be found in LeverMind , our weekly news quiz testing your knowledge of the developments that really matter — and who needs to be held accountable. You have 30 seconds for each question.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 21: U.S. imposes new Cuba sanctions; Progressive wins California special election; Congo Ebola outbreak “growing exponentially”. Friday, August 21, 2026 – Fifteen-year-old boy dies after being shot in the head by Israeli soldiers in Gaza. Israeli forces and settlers kill two Palestinians, wound several others in occupied West Bank attacks. Drop Site reports on detained Palestinian journalist. Hamas is “fully committed” to Board of Peace roadmap, official says.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 21: Private Prison Giant Gave Trump-aligned Super PAC $1.4 Million After Landing Mega ICE Contracts. GEO Group contributed $1.4 million to a powerful super PAC that supports President Donald Trump and his political agenda just weeks after the private prison and immigration detention center operator scored two massive government contracts. According to Federal Election Commission records reviewed by The Lever , on July 16 MAGA Inc.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Satellite Imagery Documents New Border Patrol Road Construction in Big Bend National Park - bellingcat. Satellite images show new road constructed in Big Bend National Park in southwestern Texas, part of a US Customs and Border Protection "Smart Wall" installation.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump says Biden gave us "the transgender mutilization of your children," mimics transgender weightlifters, and brags about his theme song being "the gay national anthem" -- all within one minute

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.