Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, July 29, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 29: Live Now: Commentary on Anthony Fauci Hearing With Dr. Matt Bivens. While watching hearings on pandemic origins, Matt Bivens and I will also review details from Dr. Anthony Fauci's Diaries

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Matt Taibbi, titled Wednesday, 8:30 AM ET: Live Commentary on Anthony Fauci Hearing With Dr. Matt Bivens.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 29: The fake historian advising Trump's anti-Smithsonian crusade. The order is the latest attack in a lengthy campaign by the Trump administration to discredit and control the Smithsonian Institution. The Trump administration has argued that the institution, which includes 21 museums and the National Zoo , has a liberal bias. The order cites a 162-page report released by the White House on July 4.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 28: West Bank Settler Terrorism and India’s Gen Z Protest Movement. Armed Israeli settlers backed by the military and government have continued to escalate attacks on Palestinians living in the West Bank in recent weeks, attacking villages and towns amid an ongoing push to assert Israeli sovereignty over the territory.

Sam: Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack) is on the same story, with a piece titled FEMA’s New Mission: Domestic Terrorism.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Ansarallah strikes Saudi oil facility; Katz orders Israeli takeover of West Bank refugee camp; Chad pulls out of ICC.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 28: Leaked Saudi Cables Reveal the Shadowy Committee That Oversees the Kingdom’s Policy on Yemen. Story by Shuaib Almosawa and Jeb Boone SANA’A, Yemen—In January 2012, Saudi Arabia’s then-defense minister, Salman bin Abdulaziz, issued a directive advising a shadowy Saudi government committee to widen Yemen’s northern war. In broad terms, the plan entailed engineering a rift between northern Yemen’s Shia majority and Salafi Sunnis when one previously had not existed.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 28: Israel Is Paying Millions to Train AI Chatbots How to Talk About Gaza. It's Working.. Brad Parscale, the former campaign manager for U.S. Since October, former Trump campaign manager Brad Parscale has been quietly overseeing an operation posting hundreds of blog posts on behalf of Israel.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 28: Major Airports To Ditch TSA. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 👀 Watch: Are we living in a world that only movies could have predicted? 🔥 ICYMI in The Lever : Meet the woman running to become America’s first socialist governor . 👇 Further down in this newsletter: Which major U.S. airports are privatizing their security? Is the FDA actually banning direct-to-consumer drug ads?

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Trump's sleeps through Lindsey Graham's funeral. Trump objects to his own eulogy (which he's clearly reading for the first time), then sleeps through Lindsey Graham's funeral -- a supercut

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Fox correspondent: "President Trump tells Fox News about Iran, 'We are going to beat the f**king s**t out of them.' He went on to say, 'We'll be hitting them hard. They're going to get a beating.'"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Judd Legum wrote: David Barton is a fake historian who wrote a book on Thomas Jefferson that was so inaccurate his publisher was forced to pull it from the shelves. Now Barton, and his son Tim, are advising Trump on his anti-Smithsonian crusade.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Sen. Roger Marshall: "Who didn't have a friend who took this vaccine and had some time of complication? A stroke, a blood clot, a young man getting some type of heart inflammation. That's what destroyed the trust in the American people for our government."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.