Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Sunday, September 27, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 2 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 27: “Wasn’t Jesus Woke?”. Adam Hamilton, the Democratic nominee for U.S. Senate, greets Jerilynn Henrikson on August 20, 2026 at Gravel City Roasters in Emporia, Ks.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 27: Lever Weekly: The Humans Broke Containment. This is Lever Weekly , a recap of our work from the past week. If you only read one email from us all week, this should be it. The Lever holds the powerful accountable through reader-supported investigative journalism that corporate media will not undertake. Join our mission , and you’ll get great perks in return.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Johnson: "When people are promising free things to you, you must ask what the real price is. It's your freedom. It will drive costs up. It will make people more dependent upon govt, & that's the communist's ultimate goal." (Trump literally just proposed giving people $5k if they vote Republican...)

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: RADDATZ: The president said 'they want to try to diminish Republicans & a Republican administration.' He's not talking about impartiality BLANCHE: There's hours of quotes. So for you to pick out 7 words & say 'that's what POTUS means,' that's very disingenuous R: We could pick other examples

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Araghchi, Iranian foreign minister, explains why US is untrustworthy: "In 2025 they offered negotiations, we accepted, then in the middle of negotiations they attacked us. Eight months later, again they offered negotiations, again we accepted, & again they attacked us in the middle of negotiations"

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.