Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, September 11, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 8 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Racket News, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 11: 9/11 Changed America — And Built Trump’s Playbook. You cannot understand the executive power Donald Trump is wielding today if you do not understand how 9/11 was used to create that power. I have been perseverating on that truth in the lead-up to today’s 25-year anniversary of the terrorist attack that altered so much — including my own life.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 11: Dan Osborn Knows Why Democrats Keep Losing Nebraska. LISTEN NOW: Registered Republicans outnumber Democrats almost 2-to-1 in Nebraska, and the few Democrats who hold elected offices in the state are overwhelmingly conservative. But like the rest of the country, Nebraska is feeling the strain of soaring prices, the data center boom, and Trump’s tariffs. Is the state ready for a change?

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 10: “All I Want Is for the War to End”: Displacement Behind the Front Lines in Yemen. Drop Site’s journalism is free to read because thousands of readers choose to fund it. SUPPORT DROP SITE - DONATE TODAY Building makeshift shelters in Jabal Zaid displaced persons camp, Wednesday, September 9, 2026. Photo: Khalid Al-Banna.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published September 10: Greatest Threat to America Since 9/11?. 🚨 Fundraising fell off a cliff this summer. Not accepting a dime in corporate ad money allows me to be genuinely independent; but it also means I’m ENTIRELY dependent on readers like you to survive. Ridiculous as the claim is, it’s being echoed by everyone from the White House to the Mamdani administration, with language so similar it’s eerie.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 10: The Big Tech Alums Building Trump’s AI War Machine. As lawmakers demand Congress put artificial intelligence safeguards in place amid new warnings from AI whistleblowers, the Trump administration is using a new, obscure office to do exactly the opposite. The agency, which is dedicated to turning the U.S. military into an “ AI-first warfighting force ,” is staffed by alumni of Amazon, Palantir, Meta, and Salesforce.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 10: Many Iranians Forced to Take Out Loans to Pay for Daily Essentials. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 10: On Escaping This Horrible Era. Racket readers may have noticed it’s quiet in here. There are three reasons, two temporary. I’ve been working on a book for two years and am in a home stretch. The second involves a breaking-type story that is a document-heavy slog, but coming. The third is more complicated. Call it an existential pileup.

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 10: Ansarallah advances on Bab al-Mandab; Trump offers to pay Americans $5,000 for midterm votes; U.S. kills 3 in Caribbean boat strike. Thursday, September 10, 2026 – Ansarallah seizes strategic Red Sea port of Mocha, advances toward Bab al-Mandab. Saudi launches more than 50 strikes across Yemen on Wednesday. Ansarallah targets three Saudi cities with ballistic missiles and drones. Pakistan says no military response to Ansarallah attacks on Saudi Arabia under discussion.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Hecklers shout ‘hE should be shot’ as Ted Cruz calls out El-Sayed and Talarico. Republicans increasingly seek to tie Democrats to left-wing members of the caucus and personalities like Hasan Piker

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: The muted response to Trump 9/11 fantasy is a media failure. "The mainstream media, is, unsurprisingly, not covering itself in glory as it struggles to avoid saying that either the president’s brain has completely left the station or that he’s a mendacious liar who knows no bounds, or both."

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: MNGOP candidate Sebastion Stoss compares door-knocking for him to giving your life: "We all have to make sacrifices. This country really is at war, and in a war you need soldiers. In World War 2, 700,000 Americans gave their lives for this country, went to the other side of the world and got shot."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Hassett: "Don't forget, the president said that $5,000 would be something that would happen should we keep the House and Senate, and if that happens then the logical place where something like that might happen would be through a reconciliation process"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: VARNEY: How are we gonna bring down the cost of diesel? HASSETT: Well, there's a big, big issue with diesel because a lot of the refining is in places that are disturbed in places with conflict, either in Russia or the straits (Not an answer!)

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.