Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Monday, September 21, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 21: Trump and Iran exchange threats as UNGA begins; Pakistan arrests Imran Khan’s sisters; ICE shoots DoorDash driver. U.S. Monday, September 21, 2026 – Four workers killed in Saudi airstrikes on telecom towers in Yemen. Ansarallah targeted Riyadh, Aramco facilities in Yanbu. Saudi-backed forces claim to recapture positions near Taiz. Ansarallah reiterates Saudi ships are the sole target in Red Sea. U.S. urges Americans to “seriously reconsider” Middle East travel, warns of rapid escalation.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published September 21: UPDATE: MAGA Inc.’s audacious new ads. President Trump has amassed an unprecedented war chest of $400 million that can be spent to influence the 2026 midterms through the MAGA Inc. super PAC. Legally speaking, Trump cannot directly control how it is spent. Super PACs must be technically independent, which means they cannot be controlled by an officeholder or candidate.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 21: The Youth Hockey Giant That Can’t Quit Private Equity. As public backlash builds against corporate interests buying up youth sports and price gouging families, the nation’s largest youth hockey operator has insisted it “is not owned by a private equity firm and has nothing to do with Wall Street.” Black Bear Sports Group repeated those claims even after The Lever exposed its ties to Wall Street and predatory business practices .

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 20: The End of Rojava: Kurds in Northeast Syria Face an Uncertain Future Amid Integration With Damascus. Thank you again to all of our readers who donated to Huda Skaik, a Palestinian journalist from Gaza, as she begins a journey to university in London. We met our goal in just a few hours thanks to your enormous generosity. Please donate and share the campaign link: gazafund.dropsitenews.com .

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 20: Lever Weekly: Everybody Panic, Nobody Regulate. This is Lever Weekly , a recap of our work from the past week. If you only read one email from us all week, this should be it. The Lever holds the powerful accountable through reader-supported investigative journalism that corporate media will not undertake. Join our mission , and you’ll get great perks in return.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: The blackmail part out loud. "There is every reason to believe that if the polls are accurate and Michael Whatley goes down to ignominious defeat, Trump will in fact attempt to take revenge on North Carolina’s voters and political leaders.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: Federal agents detained U.S. citizen Sunday morning - Evanston Now. Police chief says officers responded to a man with injuries to head, neck and teeth on Howard and made contact with agents involved.

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: Federal immigration agent shoots and injures man in Austin, Texas. The person shot is in serious but stable condition, Austin Mayor Kirk Watson said in a press conference.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: JD Vance: "They prioritized a whole lot of fraudsters. And we know exactly what happened as a result. America became a place where you had to be rich to enjoy what used to be an ordinary life for all of our citizens."

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: ICE has claimed Wilber Rafael Garces Perez, the man they shot yesterday in Austin, had a final order of removal. This may explain why his family and lawyer have been unable to locate him.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Brooke Rollins: "This is the magic of Trump 2. We learned our lesson in Trump one. We had four years to prepare. And then we were able to come back and just start deconstructing the administrative state. So we’ve moved almost 6 million people off of the SNAP program."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.