Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Monday, October 05, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 05: He Botched The Epstein Files. Now He’s Trump’s Intelligence And AI Lead.. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 New in The Lever : Corporate Dems want you to forget 2024 . 👇 Further down in this newsletter: The Epstein-y past of the new artificial intelligence czar. Will the credit card duopoly live to see another day? The skeletons in a “centrist's” closet. STORIES TO GO In a hurry?

Sam: There's also a companion piece from The Lever team, titled Lever Weekly: Forever Chemicals, Never Trumpers, Always Wall Street.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 05: Black Power: Brought To You By Walmart?. Last month, during a panel discussion at the Congressional Black Caucus Foundation’s (CBCF) Annual Legislative Conference , Angie Nixon started in on a critique of capitalism. For a moment, it sounded like she was going to hedge on what she wanted to say, for fear of offending one of the foundation’s longtime corporate sponsors.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 05: CIA Report Warns Israel Could Head Toward Civil War, Total Collapse. This is essential to our mission: to report on what matters most, beholden only to the truth. In that spirit, we made a commitment to ensure that our journalism is free for everyone, not locked behind a paywall. But that means we rely on the voluntary support of our community of readers. This article is being co-published with Capital & Empire .

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Sudan’s RSF Refused to Rescue Dozens in Gold Mine Collapse Where at Least 82 Died, Survivors Say.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Ansarallah Advances, Israel Murders, Trump Withdraws, and Why Iran Still Controls the Strait: The War Brief.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 05: Saudi-backed forces launch major offensive in Yemen; U.S. kills 4 in Caribbean boat strike; Bolsonaro wins first round in Brazil election. Monday, October 5, 2026 – Yemen : Yemen’s Saudi-backed government announces operation to retake Sana’a. Saudi-led coalition deploys 100 warplanes as Yemeni forces launch offensive. U.S. gives Saudi Arabia over 200 Ansarallah targets but holds off on direct strikes. Aramco CEO says rebuilding global oil stocks could take two years. Iran : U.S.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published October 04: This tool makes everyone a campaign finance expert. President Trump’s political operation has spent more than $1 million on direct mail attacking Michigan Democratic Senate candidate Abdul El-Sayed. One of these ads misleadingly accuses El-Sayed of wanting to “commute sentences for murderers and rapists.” (El-Sayed, during a previous run for governor, proposed commuting sentences of “low risk” prisoners … Read more

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Reflecting on 5 years of Public Notice. I'm proud Public Notice has become a bastion of sanity amidst an ocean of sanewashing, a place left-of-center readers can reliably turn to for deep understanding of what’s happening in the American right. Here's to the next five years!

Sam: Bellingcat shared: "Using AI In Investigations - To Uncover A North Korean Hiring Scam" with Craig Silverman | Stage Talks with Bellingcat. This week OSINT journalist and trainer Craig Silverman joined us to share how he uses AI in investigations, from prompting Claude to become a research…

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump is told by a right-wing correspondent that "in Maricopa County, Arizona, the vendor sent out thousands of ballots in a so-called 'error' before early voting even started" and then he repeats this allegation as fact

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: Working on a story about this and hoping to speak to USA Today journalists or journalists at other Gannett to better understand the editorial process. Anonymity granted. Contact info in bio.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: We are aware of an individual using a UK number on Telegram and WhatsApp under the name “Antony Kevin” to seek assistance recruiting journalists and analysts working on Syria. They claim to work for Bellingcat, but do not. Please disregard requests from them and contact [contact].

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.