Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Monday, August 24, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 2 stories from outlets like Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 24: GOP Senate candidate, campaigning as truck-driving everyman, travels by private jet. After securing the Republican nomination for the U.S. Senate in North Carolina, Michael Whatley launched his general election campaign with an ad that emphasized he was traveling the state in a GMC truck.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 23: Lever Weekly: The Data Center Plot Twist. Create a FREE account, or log in. Registered readers of The Lever get access to a limited number of free articles every month, breaking news alerts, and our Lever Daily newsletter. SIGN UP FREE Great! Check your inbox and click the link. Sorry, something went wrong. Please try again. Already have an account? Sign in

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: My miscarriage. I attempted to put words to what's been going on in my life:

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: BRENNAN: The president twice said the MMR shot may be lethal. Do you want to clarify that? DR OZ: We want parents to have the autonomy to decide what their kids receive BRENNAN: But he used the term 'lethal.' Do you want to clarify? OZ: The MMR vaccine is not a lethal vaccine

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: WELKER: President Trump himself says he owns this economy. Is this now the Trump economy? He's been in office for 2 years! SCOTT: There's no doubt. He's making sure that working-class Americans have more of their money to spend W: Again, inflation was at 3% when Trump took office. It's at 3.4% now

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: WELKER: Collins says Trump's Canada tariffs will increase costs on families. Is she right? SCOTT: Let's look back at Biden-- W: Wait. Trump has been in office for two years. Inflation was at 3% when Biden left office. It's at 3.4% right now. S: Joe Biden ... W: The Biden administration is over!

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.