Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, July 15, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 6 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 15: Dead or Detained? Families in Gaza Search for Their Loved Ones. Hamada al-Banna holds up a picture of himself before his year-long detention by Israeli forces. His family thought he was dead and held a funeral for him. Story by Abdel Qader Sabbah and Mohamed Ahmed JABALIYA, Gaza Strip—Six months after Hamada Al-Banna disappeared while seeking food from an aid convoy in July 2025, his family heard he had been killed and gave up their search.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 15: What is Todd Blanche still hiding about Epstein?. Attorney General. Blanche, President Trump’s former personal attorney who has been serving in an acting capacity since April, faces a number of obstacles to his confirmation. One of the biggest is Jeffrey Epstein.

Alex: Aaron Rupar pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled Todd Blanche is Roy Cohn ... but worse.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 14: A Young Populist Heats Up the Texas Agricultural Commissioner Race. In the opening months of the second Trump administration, Elon Musk was unleashed on the federal government. Under the banner of “government efficiency,” he methodically eliminated and undercut investigators who were in the process of probing his various companies and took a chainsaw to government regulators he deemed to be slowing down business.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 14: The Musk Machine Comes For Delaware’s Primaries. The lawyers who helped tech tycoon Elon Musk secure a controversial rollback of far-reaching shareholder protections are now bankrolling Democratic Delaware lawmakers who voted for the legislation as they face progressive primary challenges over the so-called “billionaires bill.” Five major law firms behind the deregulatory measure have funneled hundreds of thousands of dollars into a newly registered political action committee called First State Future PAC, which is supporting Democratic incumbents being attacked for their support of the legislation.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published July 14: Trump Summons "Poltergeist" to Go After Opponents. Secretary of State Marco Rubio will be hosting a big diplomatic summit in Washington on Thursday — not about the Iran war, but about “political terrorism.” Sterile as that may sound, it’s a resurrection of an obscure Nixon-era term pointed squarely at the political left and recruiting foreign governments to assist its war on domestic political opponents. As a U.S.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 14: Master Plan Bonus: The Case Conservatives Never Forgave | The Kingmakers. The Supreme Court just dismantled a 90-year-old legal barrier protecting independent agencies from executive-branch control, delivering a major victory to operatives and ideologues who’ve spent years working to build an all-powerful presidency.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Cerosetenta acudirá a la Corte Constitucional tras fallo de juez que le ordena eliminar investigación sobre presuntos vínculos de candidato con una red neonazi - Cerosetenta. Organizaciones que defienden la libertad de prensa reaccionaron a la decisión de un juez que restringe el derecho de los ciudadanos a conocer información sobre un aspirante a un cargo público.

Sam: Marisa Kabas shared: He was having a mental health crisis. Memphis task force agents came and shot him. Jonah Neal, 25, was struck by a Homeland Security Investigations agent in May. There have been at least four deadly shootings related to the task force.

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Hassett on negative economic sentiment: "Democrats are basically saying the economy is the worst it has ever been, which is kind of a stretch. Republicans are saying it's about the best it's ever been, which, you know, is less of a stretch. Independents are right with Democrats."

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: KUSTOFF: We all agree on body cams for these ICE officers, but when there's no funding, then can't have them NEWSNATION: They have the money now. DHS vowed they would use them, but they weren't turned on during the Maine shooting. Should there be repercussions? K: We need to know more of the facts

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: Ukraine’s military said it struck 116 Russian vessels over the past nine days. The drone attacks have reportedly forced Russia to suspend shipping operations in the Sea of Azov. Satellite imagery shows ship traffic near the Kerch Strait has ceased since the attacks began.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.