Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Sunday, August 16, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 2 stories from outlets like Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 15: You Love To See It: Those Meddling Kids. Good things are happening! Meta loses to a bunch of kids, Israel’s greatest friend makes enemies, Missourians keep Republicans in check, and climate protectors get justice. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 15: PopInfo Weekly: Max Miller, Mitch McConnell, and medical misinformation. Congressman Max Miller (R-OH) is facing serious allegations of domestic abuse. Dozens of other corporations, including AT&T, Kroger, DraftKings, Nike, and Walmart, are maintaining their financial support for Miller’s campaign.

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Weekend Update #198: Russia's Allies Are More Helpful Than Ukraine's. Actually, The USA Is Quite A Good Ally For Russia; Ukraine Is Slowly But Steadily Liberating Territory.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: They were on the plane when Trump secretly left. Here’s what they noticed.. The journalists traveling with the president had no idea he had switched planes due to a perceived threat from Iran. Now some say the operation has left them feeling deceived and questioning whether t...

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: Navy weighs major warship redesign to match Trump’s preferences. The president wants the new fleet of aircraft carriers to more resemble those from World War II. Such a change could cost billions.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: "Exposing Leaked Intimate Imagery Forums" with Bellingcat and The Press | Podcast Episode on. This week Bellingcat's Kolina Koltai and The Press' Michael Wright joined us to discuss their recent investigation into the website LeakedBB. The talk was hosted by Charlotte Maher on August 13th 2026...

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump launched the Iran war with a grandiose video talking about regime change and destroying Iran’s capabilities. Six months later, he’s proven to be so weak that the US can’t even keep the Strait of Hormuz open. An absolutely resounding defeat.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.