Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Wednesday, August 12, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 8 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 12: The “truth machine” is lying to you. On August 10, an official Polymarket account on X posted a graphic falsely claiming that, in the United States, babies receive 72 injections. President Trump, according to the Polymarket post, was ending this practice. This graphic, which was previously posted by the White House in January, is false, according to multiple independent fact checkers.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published August 11: The Rebels Already Won. Francesca Hong speaks to supporters Wisconsin votes today. If Francesca Hong loses the Democratic gubernatorial primary, mainstream media will file the story they’ve been dying to do all year: that the anti-establishment fever is breaking and the grown-ups are back. Don’t fall for it. The insurgency already won months ago, before anyone in Washington even knew who Hong was.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 11: Hormuz at Breaking Point and Remembering Journalists Killed in Gaza. The U.S. war against Iran has transformed into a form of economic siege as U.S. ships blockade Iranian ports and Trump promises a prolonged naval confrontation aimed at forcing Iran to relinquish its control over the Strait of Hormuz. At the same time, Iran is imposing its own retaliatory siege aimed at the U.S.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Drop Site team, titled Primaries in six states, including Wisc. and Minn.; Escalated Israeli assault on West Bank with 504 attacks in one week; Multiple attacks on Libya refinery.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 11: ICE’s $2.2 Billion Prison Buy-Up. This is a web version of The Lever ’s daily email newsletter. 🔥 New in The Lever : Introducing Democrats’ new billionaire kingmaker . 👀 Watch: The lawless presidency was built by Dick Cheney. 👇 Further down in this newsletter: Why is ICE purchasing detention facilities? Did DOGE delay your tax return? Can the Trump administration seize unredacted voter data?

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 11: How A Hedge Fund Billionaire Became The Democrats’ New Kingmaker. In the summer of 2023, gearing up for his bid for a second term, President Joe Biden gathered with a cadre of wealthy donors at a $7.5 million mansion in Greenwich, Connecticut. As the $25,000-a-seat fundraising dinner began, the president turned to thank his host: Stephen Mandel, a billionaire hedge fund manager and devoted Democratic donor.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 11: Cliché Alert: Return of the "Beer Test". Had a chuckle reading the New York Times story this morning about Nebraska Independent Senate candidate Dan Osborn, whose interesting take on the two traditional parties is, “I think they both kind of suck.” The Times is stroking Osborn for the same reason the Democratic Party is promoting him — he’s running against Republican Pete Ricketts.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 11: The disastrous diplomacy of Jared Kushner. In a speech to the Israeli Knesset on October 13, 2025, President Trump spoke at length on how he would deploy his son-in-law Jared Kushner to secure peace deals in Gaza, Iran, and Ukraine. “ We always bring Jared when we wanna get that deal closed ,” Trump said. Prior to his work with the Trump White House, Kushner’s main professional experience was as a real estate developer.

Sam: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 11: THE KINGMAKERS, Ep. 7: The King's Man. Sign up for a paid subscription to The Lever now to gain access to this story and more. Select Your Paid Subscription Already have an account? Sign in

Alex: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: Who's buying Russia's smuggled grain?. New European Union sanctions have recently been announced for two vessels that Bellingcat has previously reported on as part of Russia’s shadow fleet that has been smuggling grain from occupied areas of Ukraine. eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-conten... ...

Alex: Marisa Kabas shared: Three years after police raid on Kansas newspaper, reporter settles lawsuit for $850K • Kansas Reflector. Phyllis Zorn, the reporter whose acts of journalism served as an excuse for the August 2023 police raid of the Marion County Record, will get $850,000 from the city of Marion to settle her federal law...

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: SnapStream - Try It For Free Like Aaron Rupar. SnapStream is how Aaron Rupar posts newsworthy clips as they happen. Try it for free here.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Welcome To Dubai: The Kinahan Cartels Visas Revealed. Six out of seven alleged key members of the Kinahan Organised Crime Group sanctioned by the US have lived in Dubai. After reviewing United Arab Emirates immigration records, Bellingcat and found that Christopher Kinahan Jr was issued a new visa last month. ...

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.