Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Tuesday, July 21, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published July 21: ICE is lying about body cams. These documents prove it.. On July 13, Joan Sebastian Durán Guerrero, a 25-year-old from Colombia who was legally authorized to work in the US, was fatally shot by an ICE officer in Biddeford, Maine.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published July 20: The Winklevoss Twins Gave Trump $20 Million After Regulatory Win. Last month, Twin cryptocurrency titans Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss and their cryptocurrency company donated more than $20 million in bitcoin to a prominent political action committee supporting President Donald Trump , according to new Federal Election Commission records reviewed by The Lever .

Alex: There's also a companion piece from The Lever team, titled Repeat Food Contaminator Gave $2.2 Million to GOP. Now Thousands Are Sick.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published July 20: After "Political Terrorism" Summit, U.S. Names 43 Americans + Groups. Marco Rubio leads “The Resurgence of Political Terrorism” summit last week A new State Department report on Cuba’s “campaign of subversion against the United States” is a virtual government blacklist against left-wing Americans and groups. Linked to last week’s Rubio-led summit on “ political terrorism ,” the report is unusually candid about the government’s targets.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Ken Klippenstein, titled After "Political Terrorism" Event, U.S. Names 43 Americans + Groups.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Ken Klippenstein, titled State Department’s new report on Cuban influence focuses on various American citizens like Hasan Piker, Christ....

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published July 20: Editor's Note: No Livestream Today. Greetings, folks. Apologies for the late announcement, but I’m called away today and won’t be able to appear on “ Get Lit ” this afternoon. Brad Pearce and I will, however, be back next Monday, and there will of course be other content on the site forthcoming.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published July 20: U.S. and Iran trade strikes for 9th day; Ansarallah announces Saudi blockade; House to vote on fusing elements of U.S., Israeli militaries. U.S. continues its strikes on Iran over the weekend and into Monday. Iranian retaliatory attacks. U.S. confirms deaths of three service members. Iran suspends MOU commitments. Iran, U.S. signal openness to diplomacy amid ongoing strikes. Iranian energy ministry announces repairs to Jask water facility complete.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Trump’s latest public health initiative: explosive diarrhea. This administration is the best thing that ever happened to cyclosporiasis.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: The Crypto Entrepreneur Linked to a Forum Trading ‘Leaked’ Intimate Images. LeakedBB, an adult forum averaging two million monthly visits, rewarded members for posting intimate imagery they claimed was leaked, hacked or obtained through blackmail. Payment records, company filings and domain data appear to link the site to one man. ...

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Trump would love to steal the election. But he's floundering.. Republicans would rather talk about almost anything else than his conspiracy theories.

Sam: Bellingcat shared: ¿Qué hacer para reducir el impacto de los terremotos? #ConversaARIConLaLuz. Last week, UN forensic expert Morris Tidball-Binz spoke with journalists from our Latin American partner publications about lessons from Venezuela's earthquake, stressing that protocols already exist but must be implemented. ...

Alex: A few quick takes before we go.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Sean Hannity tries to gas up Darlene Graham's thin resume: "You've had your own life and success. You have been the commissioner of South Carolina's commission for the blind. You've held this position since 2019. It's a 130 person agency, $90 million budget you ran... you've got a lot of experience"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Burgum on the reflecting pool: "The repairs that were created by vandalism are underway and the pool is gonna be looking American flag reflecting blue. Thanks to President Trump's leadership ... "

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.