Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Sunday, September 20, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 5 stories from outlets like Bellingcat, Drop Site News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 20: Lever Weekly: Everybody Panic, Nobody Regulate. This is Lever Weekly , a recap of our work from the past week. If you only read one email from us all week, this should be it. The Lever holds the powerful accountable through reader-supported investigative journalism that corporate media will not undertake. Join our mission , and you’ll get great perks in return.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from The Lever team, titled Can Democrats Unite on AI Regulation?.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 20: Is The AI Threat ‘The Terminator’ or ‘The Big Short’?. We’re at the saturation point of the latest news cycle where everyone will soon tire of hearing about artificial intelligence and probably tell themselves the whole intensifying political debate is niche, inside baseball, kind of silly, and a distraction from really important news like the upcoming November election.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Bellingcat team at Bellingcat, published September 19: Christy Kinahan’s UAE Residence Visa Cancelled. This article is the result of a collaboration with The Sunday Times. You can find their corresponding piece here . Sign up here to receive Bellingcat’s biggest investigations by email as soon as they are published. Crime boss Christy Kinahan leads a $1.5 billion illicit network involved in drug trafficking, money laundering and arms smuggling from the cartel’s base in Dubai .

Sam: Bellingcat pointed to this on Bluesky too, sharing a piece titled Christy Kinahan's UAE Residence Visa Cancelled - bellingcat.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published September 19: Support Gaza Journalist Huda Skaik's Journey to University of London. About a year and a half ago, we launched a fundraising campaign to help a Pakistani student, Areeba Fatima, cover expenses for the journalism program she’d been accepted into at Columbia University.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 19: You Love To See It: The Kids Are AI-Right. Good things are happening! Big Tech gets schooled, civil rights report for duty, a fossil fuel revival hits the brakes, and The Lever sits down with a teen titan of First Amendment rights. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: KARL: Bo French posted a photo of UT students, many of them non-white, and said 'how many Americans have been displaced by foreigners?' Karl Rove denounced it. Should more Republicans? SCALISE: *immediately brings up Hasan Piker*

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: KARL: Do you support Trump banning news organizations because he doesn't like what they're reporting? SCALISE: Look, Biden removed the press credentials from 400 agencies KARL: That's not true. 400 reporters who had credentials didn't reapply. They weren't banned from the WH. That did not happen.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: "The president said the US is in constant communication with the Houthis, and that they've agreed not to fight the US. But the big headline here is the president said the Iranians better behave, and he's making a decision as to whether or not to blow up their nation."

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.