Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Saturday, October 03, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Popular Information, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 03: You Love To See It: Dolly’s Next Chapter. Good things are happening! Watchdogs clean up dirty justice, Dolly’s greatest hits keep rolling, states kick the vape habit, and a prediction market gamble goes belly up. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 03: The Morning the U.S. Bombed a School in Iran. In the opening hours of the war against Iran, on February 28, 2026, the U.S. military fired Tomahawk cruise missiles directly at a school in the southern city of Minab. At least 156 people were killed that morning at Shajareh Tayyebeh school—120 of them were children and 26 were teachers. It will go down in history as one of the gravest war crimes committed by the U.S.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published October 02: LeverMind Quiz: Do Banks Have To Rip Us Off?. How is Trump re-running campaign ads? Where are companies sending their hazardous waste? And who’s regulating our financial system? The answers to these questions and many more can be found in LeverMind , our weekly news quiz testing your knowledge of the developments that really matter — and who needs to be held accountable. You have 30 seconds for each question.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 02: Germany Offered to Fund Their Education. It Won’t Help Them Leave Gaza.. Photo: Ranin Al-Madhoun. This month, the winter semester begins at universities across Germany, and students will fill lecture halls as they begin their studies. Twenty-three-year-old Ranin Al-Madhoun will not be among them. She studied German intensively and won a competitive scholarship from the German Konrad Adenauer Foundation.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 02: U.S. deploys another carrier to the Middle East; Putin escalates Kaliningrad threats; Mass funeral in Gaza. Friday, October 2, 2026 – Iran : U.S. sending third carrier, up to 10,000 more troops to Middle East. U.S. deploys Patriot batteries to Saudi Arabia, Qatar. Treasury issues new round of sanctions on Iran’s auto and rail sectors. Iran strikes fifth tanker in Hormuz within three days. Gulf oil exports double since early August.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published October 02: Michigan Republican Tom Barrett Is Now Sour On Trump’s War in Iran—But Still Took Plenty of Defense Cash. Rep. While Republican Rep. Tom Barrett has been actively working to distance himself from President Donald Trump and the administration’s unpopular war in Iran, defense industry PACs and executives have poured more than $58,000 into Republican Rep. Tom Barrett’s bid for reelection in Michigan’s 7th district.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published October 02: PopInfo Weekly: Hawks, Hawkeyes, and Hegseth. Jay Feely, a former NFL kicker and CBS Sports analyst who is running for Congress in Arizona, has made “protecting women’s sports” a central theme of his campaign. Yet Feely has expressed retrograde views about female athletes. He described girls who compete in sports as “emotional” and more interested in getting along with their teammates than winning.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Diesel Don is tanking the GOP. Record high prices are one of Trump’s defining political failures.

Sam: Aaron Rupar shared: The mendaciousness of the latest DOJ attack on judges. Blanche created a new rule out of thin air and is mad it’s not being followed.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Congratulations to the Winners of the 2026 Online Journalism Awards! - Online Journalism Awards. As the in-person celebration of the 2026 Online Journalism Awards (#OJA26) comes to a close, we congratulate the winners in the remaining 12 of 28 categories.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Bellingcat wrote: Killing Anna, a new production by Bellingcat and Keo Films, will be broadcast in the Netherlands, UK and Latvia this month. The psychological thriller follows a Syrian academic who, using the alias Anna, befriends a former Syrian regime official suspected of involvement in the Tadamon massacre.

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Marisa Kabas wrote: last night at dinner we were talking about how much tracey sucks and the server overheard and was like are you talking about michael tracey? that guy fucking sucks, and it was very satisfying

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Ellison nails Schutz after he admits he's never taken a case for a client who didn't align w/ his personal views: "It is the job of the AG to defend laws sometimes you don't agree w/ if those laws are constitutional" (Note that Schutz then initially stammers about if abortion access is settled law)

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.