Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Friday, August 28, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 7 stories from outlets like Drop Site News, Ken Klippenstein (Substack), Popular Information, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 28: U.S. Designates Palestinian Refugee in Germany as “Terrorist”. The U.S. has designated a stateless Palestinian refugee based in Germany as a “terrorist,” alongside three European-linked left-wing groups. On Wednesday, the Office of Foreign Assets Control placed 30-year-old Zaid Abdulnasser on the list of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons as one of two alleged “leaders or officials” of Masar Badil.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Ken Klippenstein at Ken Klippenstein (Substack), published August 28: Dolly Parton’s Superpower. Subscribe Dolly Parton had a power no president does: the ability to influence basically anyone for the better. "I am not political,” she once famously said. “I'm more about the person and about the message.” Compare that to the brute force logic of our politics, where the prevailing strategy is to win the White House, run up the score in Congress, and bulldoze the opposition.

Alex: The Lever team at The Lever is on the same story, with a piece titled What Would Dolly Do?.

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published August 28: Listen to This Article: Karen Attiah and the Right to Suck. An arbitrator can only fix so much. Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 08/25/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts Read more

Sam: There's also a companion piece from Matt Taibbi, titled "Get Lit" August 27, 2026: On Stephen Crane's “The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky,” and “The Blue Hotel”.

Sam: Noted. Okay, this one's mine. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 28: Israel kills three in first airstrike on West Bank in 10 months; Judge again blocks Trump order on mail ballots; Over 2,500 dead or missing in Nepal. Friday, August 28, 2026 – Israeli strikes kill eight Palestinians in Gaza on Thursday and Friday. Civil defense teams recover 233 bodies in Gaza. Israel bombs house in Jenin in first strike on occupied West Bank in 10 months. Israeli forces raid Nablus; settlers obstruct Friday prayers. Israel detains about 370 Palestinian children, report says.

Alex: That one's worth a full read. Next up. From The Lever team at The Lever, published August 28: A Natural Gas Astroturf Group Says It Flipped NY Gov. Hochul. In November 2025, New York Gov. Kathy Hochul pulled an about-face on climate policy that caused a furor among the state’s environmentalists . Once an opponent of new fossil fuel infrastructure, the governor announced she would approve a new Trump-backed gas pipeline project that had previously been rejected by state officials.

Sam: Good to know. Here's what I've got next. From Judd Legum at Popular Information, published August 28: PopInfo Weekly: Measles, Mamdani, and MAGA Inc.. Michael Whatley, the Republican nominee for Senate in North Carolina, released an ad stating that he has “driven thousands of miles across North Carolina trying to fix our country and help working families.” But campaign finance filings reveal that Whatley’s campaign committees have spent over $100,000 since last September on travel in a $2 million private jet.

Alex: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Drop Site team at Drop Site News, published August 27: Do Rural Residents Have the Power to Say No?. This piece by Raj Patel, a research professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs and a member of the International Panel of Experts on Sustainable Food Systems, and Jim Goodman, a retired dairy farmer, looks at the way hyperscalers are approaching the construction of data centers in rural communities and the rights those communities have.

Sam: And Aaron Rupar weighed in on Bluesky: Trump is now more than an hour late for a Medal of Honor event at the NASA Johnson Space Center, and the producers of the event are playing long videos to fill the time as Trump posts on Truth Social

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Bellingcat shared: Home | Bellingcat Investigations. Receive our most prominent investigations by email as soon as they are published.

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: complete silence at the NASA center as Trump brags about the stock market and touts fake foreign investment numbers. just a brutally awkward speech that is going over like farts in church

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: this is one of those instances where Trump's inability to deliver a speech that's under a half hour long really hurts him. nobody wants to hear him riff about Venezuela and Iran for an hour+ at an event that's supposed to be nonpartisan and in honor of other people

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Trump is making the astronauts he's supposedly honoring sit around and wait for him endlessly. Ambient music has been playing for a half an hour now as everybody waits for Trump to show up.

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.