Alex: Welcome to The Independent Wire for Sunday, September 13, 2026. I'm Alex.

Sam: And I'm Sam. On today's episode: 3 stories from outlets like Racket News, The Lever, plus what independent journalists are highlighting on social media. As always, every story is credited to the journalist who reported it. Let's get into it.

Alex: From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 13: Lever Weekly: Ctrl-Alt-Defeat. Big Tech keeps promising a reset. What they’re actually doing is much worse. All that and more in Lever Weekly , a recap of our work from the past week. If you only read one email from us all week, this should be it. The Lever holds the powerful accountable through reader-supported investigative journalism that corporate media will not undertake.

Sam: There's also a companion piece from The Lever team, titled THE KINGMAKERS, Ep. 8: The Inheritance.

Sam: Judd Legum at Popular Information is on the same story, with a piece titled PopInfo Weekly: Fantasies, fabrications, and fuel.

Sam: Interesting. Here's my next one. From Matt Taibbi at Racket News, published September 12: Listen to This Article: On Escaping This Horrible Era. Some people love living in a binary. What about the rest of us? Narrated by Jared Moore Art by Daniel Medina Text published 09/10/26: Listen to subscriber-only audio in your podcast app Share the free versions of Racket To Go on Apple Podcasts , Spotify , or wherever you get your podcasts

Alex: Worth keeping an eye on. Moving along. From The Lever team at The Lever, published September 12: You Love To See It: Holy Habitat, Batman!. Good things are happening! Conservationists score two teaspoons of triumph, workers pour a tall glass of solidarity, attorneys general assemble for vital healthcare, and buffalo regain their home on the range. You Love To See It is a benefit of a Lever paid subscription.

Sam: Journalists were also sharing new work on social media.

Alex: Aaron Rupar shared: Subscribe to Public Notice. Sign up for independent, incisive coverage of US politics and media, right in your inbox five times a week. Click to read Public Notice, by Aaron Rupar, a Substack publication with hundreds of thousan...

Sam: A few quick takes before we go.

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Abdul El-Sayed: "Weijia, with all due respect, this is the third time you've asked about a Twitch streamer ... their whole game is to make us fight culture wars so that we don't pay attention to the fact the president has made $2.2 billion ... "

Sam: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: Buttigieg: "Even Speaker Johnson can't endorse what President Trump has been saying about everyone getting $5k. That tells you everything you need to know -- it's not just not going to happen. The tragic thing about it is extra cash would mean a lot to a lot of families hurting in the Trump economy"

Alex: In a post on Bluesky, Aaron Rupar wrote: WELKER: Since Trump took office, inflation is up, gas prices are up, tariffs have cost American households nearly $2,000. Many Americans say they just aren't feeling it. Is there a disconnect? MIKE JOHNSON: No. Remember that when President Took over the economy was in shambles

Alex: And that's everything for this edition of The Independent Wire. Everything you heard comes directly from the cited journalists' own reporting.

Sam: Links to every story are in the show notes. Support the journalists whose work you heard today. Thanks for listening.